# Modern Family Episode Summaries

## [Fifteen Percent](https://modernfamily.fandom.com/wiki/Fifteen_Percent)

While hanging out together at a bar, Jay and his friends run into Cameron, whom Jay introduces as "a friend of my son's", carefully avoiding Cameron's relationship with Mitchell. This annoys Mitchell, and decides to talk to his father about it. Jay tells him he was just trying to avoid an awkward situation with a bunch of people with old attitudes. Mitchell then tells him that he believes that Shorty, one of his friends, is gay. Jay vehemently denies it, but when he informs Gloria of Mitchell's opinion, she agrees with Mitchell, since Shorty has never tried to flirt with her. She insists Jay to talk to his friend about it, so he decides to invite Shorty to go play golf. Jay begins noticing some signs after he starts watching how Shorty acts. He starts to think that it may be possible. Jay settles for coffee and finally tries to get Shorty to open up. Jay admits he didn't handle the situation well with his son, and offers himself to support Shorty and doing all he can to help him. Shorty then tells him however, that rather than being gay, he owes a bookie $20,000. He assumes that Jay is willing to lend him the money, and considers it beautiful. Jay confronts Mitchell, telling him that in offering his support to Shorty instead he had to loan him $20,000 to cover gambling debts. It turns out that Mitchell never believed that Shorty is gay, he was just teaching Jay a lesson for introducing Cameron as "a friend of my son's". But Mitchell tells his father he's proud of him, for becoming more open-minded than he was when Mitchell was younger.

Manny is preparing himself for his blind date with a girl named Whitney, whom he met in an online book club. Unfortunately, when she arrives, Gloria and Manny discover that Whitney is actually an adult woman, who didn't know that Manny is a child because he seemed so mature online. Whitney feels so ashamed and stupid, and believes that she'll be alone for the rest of her life. Gloria and Manny try to comfort her, and Gloria ends up giving her a makeover so that she can feel better about herself. Later, Cameron comes over to bring Gloria some flowers for babysitting Lily. He immediately shares a strong connection with Whitney, and she thinks he might be "the one".

In the meantime, Cameron is freaking out over the appearance of limp flowers he has bought for Gloria. Mitchell is surprised for this, as Cameron is completely bothered by the flowers, but when Jay introduced him as "a friend of my son's", he didn't bother about it. But Cameron points that this is because Jay didn't mean any harm and the florist played him for a fool. The florist comes over to replace the flowers, but when the old ones suddenly start looking better, Cameron microwaves them to make them look bad again. However, as a result of the microwave, they start to burn, and Cameron freaks out in front of Mitchell and the florist.

Meanwhile, Phil has just installed a home theater system in their living room. However, Claire doesn't understand electronics, so she has some problems using the master remote control for the home theater system. Believing that it's useless and nobody can use it, she finally breaks the remote, which makes Phil get angry at her. Claire refuses to apologize to him, so he decides to prove how wrong she is. He buys another remote control and has to teach their "dumbest kid" how to operate it in 20 minutes or less. Although Phil first wants to teach Luke, Claire demands him to teach Haley, as she doesn't understand electronics either. Haley has initially no interest in learning how to work the remote, but Phil convinces his daughter to learn the ways of the home theater system because they would both love to prove Claire wrong. She finally learns to use it successfully, making Claire  feel stupid for not knowing how to work it. Once Phil is asleep, Claire begs Haley to teach her, and she finally learns it.

In the end credits, Shorty thanks Jay for lending him the money for his debt and gives him two tickets to see Michael Bublé in gratitude. Jay first thinks that are for himself and Gloria, but Shorty tells him that are for themselves. Jay agrees to go with him, and Shorty also proposes to have a picnic together, as the concert is outside. Later, an unknown man walks by and Shorty asks him who does his hair. Seeing all of this, Jay restarts thinking that his friend might be gay.

---

## [Coal Digger](https://modernfamily.fandom.com/wiki/Coal_Digger)

We open with Jay, Gloria and Manny at the Pritchett household. Jay tells Manny to get ready for school and tells Gloria that she can get together with the girls if she wants and he'll watch the football game. Manny then interrupts to tell Gloria that Jay means he wants to watch a football game and Jay tells him that he isn't talking to him implying that he doesn't need to tell her what he means.

Jay then notices that Manny is drinking coffee and Manny tells Jay that's it's a Colombian thing, then the camera switches to Gloria who is smiling when Manny says 'Colombian thing'. Jay then asks what part of Colombia are the french toaster sticks from before Manny can answer (with nothing)  Gloria tells Jay that their whole family is coming over for the barbecue. Seemingly Jay forgets it's today that the barbecue happens asking 'it's today 'to which

Manny replies with 'Si' in Spanish  Jay tells Gloria that it's the Ohio State game and Gloria says that everybody can watch while Jay says he doesn't like to watch with people who don't watch the game because they talk through Manny then tells Jay he talks through his football game to which his stepfather tells him that it's soccer and his team has only scored two goals the entire season Jay then says he isn't taking a big risk as he walks over to the coffee machine and sees that Manny has drunk a lot of coffee and evidently asks Manny how much he's drunk to which Manny replies "Gimmie a break I have to climb a rope today" which implies that in Gym Manny will be climbing rope (See Cultural Refrences).

We are now with the Dunphys' in their household, Haley asks to borrow some money, but lies about the reason behind it saying she needs to buy a book which Claire seemingly sees right through and asks what book knowing Haley probably can't answer as she isn't, while it is Alex who is the smarter one. Claire tells Haley she's a bad liar and Alex says she's more worried that she can't name a single book. Phil walks into the kitchen and shouts to Luke that they are already late for school.

Luke appears and Claire says that having his shirt on inside out is a first for him , she then goes to say that he hasn't got his shirt caught in his pants zipper but looks down to realize that he has. Claire and Phil are the first to be "interviewed", in which Phil says that there is 'street smart' and 'book smart' and Claire says 'and then there's Luke' whilst laughing. Phil making her stop says 'Luke's just curious he's got this almost scientific mind with a thirst for knowledge he's like this little Einstein (See Cultural Refrences) some people ask 'why?', Luke asks 'why not'. Whilst Phil is talking clips of Luke being 'stupid' are shown. Claire tells us and Phil that she asks 'Why?!' a lot. It is implied with humor that she has to ask why quite a lot as Luke does a lot of weird stuff.

We are back with Cam and Mitch at their household, Cam is celebrating the Ohio State Game with Lily as Mitch isn't interested. Mitch asks if they have to go to his Dads' and Cam tells him that it's the Ohio State Game. Mitch and Cam are "interviewed" and Cam says "I collect antique fountain pens. I'm quite adept at Japanese flower arrangement 'Ikebana' (See Cultural Refrences) and I was a starting offensive lineman at the University of Illinois." we go back to Mitch and Cam with Lily, where Mitch complains that he doesn't like football, Cam states that being a part of a relationship means faking liking each others' interests.

Cam then states an example where he faked liking something Mitchell liked: 'Home Pickle Making'. Cam tells Mitch to stay at home if he really wants to and then gives another example of where he faking liking something Mitchell liked: 'Scrapbooking', and Mitchell says that Cam loved scrapbooking and Cam double questions him which Mitch hates, so then Cam does it again when he is gone, poking Lily out the door and acting as if Lily is saying it, which Mitch plays along with.

[INTRO THEME SONG]

We are with Claire in the Dunphy house who is on the phone to the school, and then Phil, who answers asking 'what's up'. Claire tells Phil that the school wants them to come down as Luke got into a fight. Phil lies to Claire about where they are but when Claire asks what house, he can't come up with an answer and tell her the truth: he is golfing.

We then see Claire and Phil in the school halls of Manny and Luke's school, Walgrove Elementary School, where Claire and Phil have dialogue a bit of dialogue in which they discuss who could be in there with Luke. Claire and Phil get to the Principal's Office and to their surprise it's Manny.

It seems that there were name callings and by the time the teacher broke them up, Luke was sitting on Manny's chest. The principal then realizes that everyone is related somehow but doesn't know it's by marriage. He tells them that they should work it out at home since they are related and dismisses the boys back to class, leaving awkward air between Gloria and Claire when they both agree that 'one kid is a little different' they both give each other looks knowingly offending each other and each others' kids.

We cut to driving scenes, with Gloria and Claire arguing about each other at the same time, Phil is Claire's driver and Jay is Gloria's. Jay and Phil have to keep both of their families in check prior to he incident. Phil without realizing that it could get him intro trouble with Claire says that he doesn't like it when 'his girls' fight subsequently making Claire ask 'how exactly is she your girl?'

We are back with Cam and Mitch, Cam tells Mitch he has a few things in preparation for the party, and asks if Lily is ready to leave the house. Mitchell, in the kitchen, replies that she's ready but Cam seemingly notices he has a dull tone to the reply and asks what's wrong, to which Mitchell says that's he's worried about CJ.

Hightower, and how he is in the Ohio State Game with a broken ankle, showing that he has looked it up on line and is going to commit to what Cam said earlier: faking liking things for your other half, although he isn't faking and is ready to like what Cam likes. Cam then says it's very mature of him, but Mitchell breaks his matureness when he says it seems easy to learn football; 'if football fans can learn it how hard can it be?' Cam then says that is very elitist of him. Mitchell follows Cam into the living room and Cam asks if he is straight: commenting on the coloring of his face, he has one half not painted and the other half painted in blue. Mitch says that he's not sure what he is right now. This is seemingly another okay-gay-joke by the writer of Modern Family.

We come back to the Pritchett household where, Jay opens the door in an excited-to-see-you way to his family members: Luke, Alex, Phil and then Claire. Claire guesses that the game is on and Phil affirms that the game is on. Phil walks up to Gloria and evidently tries to make amends saying 'nice to see you again' which was probably at least two hours ago. Gloria notices and says 'two times today' which Phil mistakes in her accent for her saying something along the lines of 'give me a hug', Claire tells him what she said just before he goes to hug her (leaving humor between the lines).

Phil tries to mend the relationship between his son and his two-step-half-brother, Manny. But when Phil gets soppy and awkward and gets into 'feelings' the word Jay pretty much hates, Jay takes over and succeeds managing to get them to forgive each other. We are now with Gloria and Claire; who has just walked into the kitchen, Claire says that she made dessert, Gloria thanks her and says she made pie, resulting in more awkward air, Phil breaks the silence by trying again to repair everything, this time Claire stops him saying 'Phil, no.' but Gloria asks why 'Phil, no', 'What is Phil doing?' Phil then says there's tension between them; evidently. And Claire says she's going to kill him for saying that. Gloria sticks to Phils said, and says she thinks they should talk about why Claire may hate her. Phil then says, 'that's what I'm talking 'bout, you two talking; doubt it.'

We are back in the living room and Alex tells Grandpa Jay that it's weird that Haley doesn't like football or watching it as it contains boys and there's no reading. She then goes onto say what Haley does as Jay brings up his hands to cover her eyes and mouth subsequently asking her to shut up. Cam and Mitch walk into the living room, and Jay makes a remark, which Mitch thinks is offensive, Cam corrects him saying that it's a player in the game: Dick Buttkiss (See Cultural Refrences), Mitch asks if everyones' okay with that, but stops before fully asking.

Mitch apologizes to Jay saying he thought he was being homophobic to which Jay responds 'we got all night'. Mitch then replies with a 'yes, we do' under his breath. Cam then says that Mitch has been studying for the game. Mitch then says he's worried about Hightower and who's replacing him. Jay says that Billings definitely won't be, Cam tells Mitch Billings' is in jail. Cam, Jay, Alex and Mitch then start to celebrate things that happen in the game.

We are back in the kitchen with Gloria, Claire and Phil, Phil tries to play therapist with Claire and Gloria, which simultaneously is unsuccessful for Claire and successful for Gloria and in the end successful for all of them: Claire and Gloria sort out their differences: Gloria says she sometimes feels like Claire doesn't like her. Phil asks how she feels about it and Claire seemingly get angry at Phil for trying to play therapist and responds with 'right now, I'm feeling a lot of anger' Phil then says 'No, don't tell me, tell her' not knowing she means with him and makes it evident when saying it to Gloria 'Gloria, right now, I'm really angry at Phil.'

Phil realizes and says 'let's respect the process', Claire asks Gloria why she thinks she doesn't like her and Gloria says that she makes a face when Claire is around her and imitates the face, Claire says she doesn't do that, Mitch walks in overhearing and says 'that is so Claire!' and Phil agrees, 'she does that with everyone, it's just her face' sparking more anger with Claire. However Gloria disagrees, Gloria says that from the beginning she feels like she and Manny have always been excluded from Claire as being part of the family, but Claire tells her that it's crazy to feel that way, Gloria disagrees again saying that's just how she feels; Mitchell awkwardly exits the room over-

hearing them talk. Claire apologizes that she feels that way and tells her that she feels like this, because from the moment she met her she tried to make her feel very welcome. Gloria asks if she thinks it's all in her head, undecided whether or not telling her it is and sounding rude, she stutters to tell her that she really loves having Manny and her in her family, Phil says that he feels a hug coming on, but the women decide that it isn't with him but with each other, excluding Phil when he goes in for a hug.

We then see each two members of the family; including Gloria and Claire, who had brief feuds earlier in the show patch things up: Mitchell and Jay, after Jay tells Mitchell to get out of the room following him not knowing about football except from the little he looked up on the internet, then Manny and Luke after Luke tells Manny not to call him his nephew although he is, Luke just isn't used to it and doesn't want to have someone his age be his Uncle.

Luke and Manny then patch it up whilst playing games: they come down and say what they made fun of each other for, however things take a sour turn for Gloria and Claire as Luke reveals that he heard from his mother, Claire that Gloria is a 'coal digger', Phil corrects Luke and Alex saying 'coal digger' to 'gold digger' (which is a derogatory term for women who are only after a mans' money; (See Cultural Refrences)) Gloria being offended again, asks Claire 'So it's all in my head huh?' Which sparks the same argument between Gloria and Claire.

Claire gets "interviewed": "If I say something that everybody else is thinking, does that make me a mean person? Or does it make me a brave person? One who is courageous enough to stand up and-and say something behind someone's back to a 10-year-old."

We come back into the kitchen where Jay, Mitchell, Claire and Phil are, Jay says his wife is pissed and Claire says Gloria won't come out of her room, Jay asks whether he really had to call her that. Claire states that it was a year ago and a natural question to ask when she is a beautiful hot woman and Jay isn't - and this is where Claire stops when she doesn't want to offend her Dad,

Jay's curiosity asks 'what?' Claire asks for help from her brother, Mitchell, he seemingly will of course decline. Jay says this is exactly why the family should sweep things under the rug; so people don't get hurt.  Phil tells them that then too much gets under thew rug and creates a lumpy rug with a tripping hazard (which is a very good metaphor for the situation) and then they would have to get a law suit- and this is where Phil stops, when he realizes that Jay, when serious, bored and confused simultaneously, can go a really long time without blinking.

It's still nighttime when the camera pulls in on the Pritchett Households' Gloria's bedroom. We then see Phil try to talk to Gloria, in an "interview" with Phil before he walks into Gloria's bedroom, he says that Claire says you can be part of the problem or part of the solution, but he believes that he can be both, we come back to Phil who tells Gloria, Claire feel horrible and Gloria should try to talk to her. Gloria says she knows how Claire feels about her she knows Claire thinks that she is a 'coal digger' Phil stupidly tries to correct her to 'gold digger' but Gloria tells Phil she knows the word, Phil tells Gloria that Claire did call her that but it was a long time ago and she doesn't feel the same way evidently getting to know her.

Gloria starts to throw her underwear at Phil saying that Jay does buy her nice things but she can live without them, Phil being distracted by the colorful underwear: "Gloria we all know you'd be fine without underwear- I mean we know it's not about that" Gloria affirms that it's about her not being accepted by Claire into her family, Phil tells her that she is beautiful and she maybe one of those beautiful women who don't know it, although Gloria dismisses this, Phil then says it's natural for his wife, to wonder about what Gloria wants from her Dad. Phil says that the Pritchett family is very protective of their own family, and that keep a very close eye on the people who come and marry into their family, Phil makes Claire bringing home himself for Jay to inspect him, saying Jay thought that Phil wasn't good enough, but by then Mitchell brought Cameron home, so in Jay took hie eyes off Phil, leaving him 'golden to date/marry Claire'. Phil tells Gloria that Claire needs to finish inspecting her and she'll be 'the most loyal friend' she's ever had.

We come back to; the only people left in the kitchen: Mitch, Cam and Jay. Jay asks Mitchell; being gay, which slightly both offends and makes Cam and Mitch feel awkward, why his sister, Claire, said that Gloria would never go for anybody that looked like him, however Jay dos not say it in those words,: "So if I was in one of your bars and 'Righteous Brothers' (See Cultural Refrences) were on, you know would you, uh, I don't know, check me out?" Mitchell tells Jay that he is now ruining being gay for him, Jay walks out in offense, Cameron stops him and tells him that it's weird for a son to say it to his father, so, he will: "For the record I think you're smokin' hot, yeah 100%" "You're totally my type, you're dangerous, you're getable, you have a little "cashola" in your pocket", Mitchell starts to feel even more awkward and awkward as Cameron gives him a number on a scale of 1-10 giving him a '9' when Jay thinks he is a '7', evidently understandably weird for Mitchell to hear. So he walks out the room.

We are back upstairs with Claire knocking on Gloria's bedroom door, Claire asks to talk about what happened and when Gloria is hesitant, Phil states he's seen her kick in a door before, Gloria walks up to the door and accepts Claire's talk with her.  Claire admits she doesn't know what Phil is saying to her, and notices Gloria's underwear surrounded by him, or why he is covered in her underwear. To which Gloria makes a sarcastic remark saying that she is trying to seduce him for his money. Gloria then asks what she

has to do to get Claire to trust her, Gloria starts to take off pieces of jewelry asking if she should get rid of them since they are things Jay has bought for her, as a series of 'no's' come out of Phil and Claire accept for the last one which Phil doesn't answer: Should I take off this dress?, and Claire gives him a look for him not answering, Phil then makes up a lie, that could be viewed as the truth by Gloria, however it's something that Claire could see right though, but lets him off: "I didn't answer because this shouldn't be about me, it should be about you, talking to you about it" as Phil walks out of the room, Claire wants to tell him something: he has Gloria's underwear stuck to his pants, even though he doesn't know what she's going to say but probably not wanting to get into anything more, he declines as a 'No, you're welcome.'. Claire once again tells Gloria she is really sorry, Gloria asks what she really feels that she is with her father.

Claire tells Gloria that "honestly it was hard, you don't expect to wake up one morning with a new Mom who looks like she fell off a mud flap- but, I'm getting used to it, and the important thing is you make him happy, which you do, in so many ways, (looks at underwear on the floor) sooo many colors... are we okay?" after this Gloria tells her no. Claire embarrassed her in front of everyone downstairs, and Claire is asking her to forget about it, Claire asks if she wants her to embarrass herself so they're even, the conversation takes a turn when Gloria asks Claire to jump in the swimming pool with her clothes on in the backyard, although it's cold and nighttime

We come back to the boys: Jay, Mitch and Cam all shouting about the game, when Gloria and Claire come down and Jay asks if they've solved everything, Claire says "Almost, Gloria just wants me to jump in the pool", Jay ignore her but everyone else just follows Gloria and Claire, Jay soon sees this and follows everyone else.

We get to the back yard and Claire asks if Gloria really wants her to actually jump in the pool, Gloria affirms and won't forgive her unless she actually does get wet and jump in the pool properly, which Claire does, Gloria forgives her and they all including Claire start to laugh, Jay then pushes Gloria & Phil into the pool, and then Manny and Luke drag Jay into the pool, Mitchell then jumps in with his niece, Alex, in his arms, Cameron then jumps in whilst screaming 'CANNONBALL!', the only person who is not pushed or has jumped in themselves is Haley.

The ending scene is Cam and Jay enjoying the game together, in the background Claire and Mitch are drying themselves, Claire says it's weird to think about a woman being sexually attracted to Dad, Mitch then tops her saying that it weird that Cam said that he would pick Dad up at a gay bar, Claire asks how it was brought up and Mitch says he's trying to block it out, Claire and Mitch agree that their Mom and Dad had sex twice; to produce Mitch and Claire. Jay and Cam then get into a football position, but Mitch more than Claire finds it seriously inappropriate, weird and awkward again.

---

## [Fears](https://modernfamily.fandom.com/wiki/Fears)

What are you afraid of?

ALEX: Global warming...and getting a "B".

CLAIRE: The phone ringing in the middle of the night.

PHIL: I'm too much of a perfectionist (Claire: "Honey, this isn't a job interview.") Oh, man. Job interviews.

JAY: Nothing. (Gloria: Yeah right. What about the pigeons?) Oh, I don't like them. They're shifty.

CAMERON: Losing Mitchell.

MITCHELL: Hotel bedspreads.

HALEY: Never getting my driver's license...or getting it and the picture sucks.

MANNY: Dying alone.

Haley is very nervous about taking that test, since she doesn't want to be driven around by Claire anymore, who, like, always hassles her about, like, her use of the word 'like'. But then, it beats Phil and Luke going under the house to see the unknown 'collection' that is under the house. Phil buys jumpsuits and headband lights for Luke and himself. However, they are afraid of whatever wild animals seem to be escaping from underneath the house.

Mitchell and Cameron are trying to straighten up for their pediatrician, who was coming over for brunch, and they wanted to improve on their not-so-good first impressions from last time. Even getting rid of the girlish doll their two lesbian friends brought over was crucial, although they didn't want to stereotype.

Naturally, Mitchell thinks it's weird, but Cameron is trying to score brownie points by making brownies for her. It works for Cameron's dentist, as does the fact that Cameron's dentist has the hots for him. Fortunately, their pediatrician seemed to appreciate the gesture, as well as Cameron telling her she has a great figure. And Lily is as cute as ever until she invokes every gay dad's worst nightmare while Dr. Miura was holding Lily: her first word is "mommy."

In spite of Dr. Miura's reassurances, Cameron is still beside himself.

CAMERON: Maybe (sniffle) we're not providing her (sob) with the feminine energy (cry) she needs.

Suddenly, Cameron blames Dr. Miura, because she's Asian...a fact well-established the last time, which is why they're having the brunch in the first place. Mitchell breaks out his Drama Queen-English translator to say that perhaps Lily bonded with her orphanage's handlers for the first six months she was born, and Dr. Miura might have brought that out in her. Dr. Miura tries to downplay it and Mitchell and Cameron agree...until Lily says 'mommy' again. Even Mitchell can't be the strong one now. Dr. Miura finally tells them that her mother wanted her to go the traditional route, and she relied more on her father for advice on going to med school.

DR. MIURA: The only way my mother will ever be happy with me is if I'm some Asian stereotype. And that just isn't me. (right before knocking over a bunch of garbage cans with her car).

While Jay takes Manny to the pier to fish, since he was too afraid to go to a birthday party at an amusement park, and Haley takes her third driver's test with the instructor who flunked her the first two times, Phil is trying not to go underneath the house but also not seem afraid in front of Luke. His solution is hooking up a video camera to a remote-controlled truck and do a Mars Rover imitation. And the odds of the truck getting stuck underneath?

It turns out, Gloria had an ulterior motive for taking Jay and Manny to the pier to fish: the roller coaster was there. Manny was still afraid, but Gloria eventually talks him into it. But now suddenly Jay has a bad back and an inner-ear thing. But now Gloria goes off.

GLORIA: Oh for God's sake, fine! Here! Take my girlie purse, and my floppy hat, and if you need it, there's the ladies' room!

While Haley begs and pleads for a fourth chance to take her test, Alex doesn't want to go to a dance at school, despite Gloria's insistence. Alex tries to come up with every anti-establishment reason for doing it, but Claire goes on until she breaks down and admits she's afraid of not being asked to dance. Claire gives her the same advice she gave Haley: just take three deep breaths and do it.

Phil is ready to give up, but somehow Luke gets the courage to go into the crawl space. Unfortunately, he gets caught by a hot water pipe, and Phil has to brave the dark and the spiders to get him out. And the collection? Initially, dead bodies. Actually, they were the previous owner's Halloween decorations.

PHIL: Everybody's afraid of something, right? Heights, clowns, tight spaces. Those are things you get over. But then, there's our children. Will they fit in? Will they be safe? Those are fears you never get past. So sometimes, all you can do is take a deep breath, hold them close, and hope for the best. Sometimes things don't work out. But you gotta love it when they do...

...like Cam and Mitchell finding out that Lily wasn't rejecting them but was imitating her doll, which says "mommy".

---

## [Game Changer](https://modernfamily.fandom.com/wiki/Game_Changer)

It is Phil's birthday, and he couldn't be happier. The iPad is coming out the same day. He's all set to wait in line at 6 in the morning, but Claire volunteers instead. She doesn't think he should spend his birthday waiting in line. She'll get his home theater/library/music player all in one.

Jay's present to Phil: a rosewood chess set. So much so, Jay wants Manny to help him road test it first. Gloria wants Manny to tank the game because Jay gets grumpy when he loses.

Over at Mitchell and Cameron's, they hear what sounds like a man inside of Lily's room. Mitchell wakes Cameron, and he breaks out the bat and says "It's go time," but it turned out to be the baby monitor picking up someone else frequency. But Mitchell does man up and enter the room, and is ready to attack any spider that comes along with his broom.

It turns out Claire was just as excited to get Phil an iPad as he was, since her gift to him last year was barbecue tongs with a flashlight on them. Unfortunately, she underestimated the stamina it takes to wait in a line for a store to open for three hours. She never made it off the couch. She had to confess not making it to the Apple Store early enough, and Phil is devastated. Not even the promise of "more next week" won't mollify him. He goes to a place where birthdays are still appreciated: the batting cages. Phil is hitting them out and then hears about Phil's birthday party over the loudspeakers. He's excited for the party...even though it turned out not to be his.

Jay tries to give Manny a kids' version on how to play chess, but Manny decides to play him again. Jay, full of confidence, offers to put a prize on the table if Manny wins, like...Jay's watch. Naturally, Manny drops him and is sporting some new bling. Eventually, Jay figures it out and complains to Gloria that Manny hustled him. Jay thinks he can play chess because he beat Gloria at it on their honeymoon.

Cameron has turned the baby monitor into his new personal soap opera. Apparently, Jake and Debbie, the people they can hear on it, are having quite a bit of drama. Debbie called Jake's boss, who said he wasn't working late like Jake told her. It sounds like divorce central, but Mitchell is more worried about freezing up the prior night when Lily was in trouble.

He goes to Jay, returning his tool belt in the process. Jay hoped he was a big hit at the party and wondered if Cam went as the Indian, but Mitchell was actually building something with Jay's tools: a gift-wrapping station. Mitchell asks Jay to teach him some self-defense moves, since what he learned about fighting from "West Side Story" didn't pan out so well. Mitch tries to show some of the things Jay taught him when he was 11, but it wasn't pretty. Jay shows him some Brazilian jiujitsu moves, telling Mitchell to attack him with some deep-seeded anger. Not letting Mitchell go out at Halloween as Olivia Newton-John did the trick, and Mitch attacks. Jay demonstrates a Mata-leao, which, given what happens to Mitchell, translates as "sleeper hold."

Cameron, still listening to the baby monitor, is loving the dirt, until he finds out Jake was secretly learning Italian for Debbie's mother. Uh-oh. Time for Cam to go fix the situation, which he does. Although it doesn't really explain how Cameron knew about it in the first place.

Claire has the kids texting, Twittering, Facebooking, helium inhaling, whatever it takes to find another iPad. Haley finds one at another Apple store, and Luke calls to tell her that he put Phil's cake on her credit card. Which was in her wallet. Still at the house. Mitchell brings it to her in line at the Apple Store. While there, someone cuts in line and refuses to go away. Time for Mitchell to use what Jay taught him. Of course, what are the odds it works for Mitchell and something else doesn't happen, like, both of them being thrown out of the store? One cake on the floor later, Phil is depressed. And Jay and Gloria open his present first to settle who is the better chess player. However, Luke came through in the clinches, telling one of Phil's friends that he was dying. Phil has his iPad. Everybody thinks it's the coolest thing.

(The characters striked out do not appear in this episode)

---

## [Moon Landing](https://modernfamily.fandom.com/wiki/Moon_Landing)

It is a very busy morning for everybody. Haley has broken up with Dylan because she prefers someone who does not bang their head on the garage door every time they ride their bike out. Claire is meeting up with an old workmate. Gloria has to get legal advice from Mitchell from a fender-bender she had, and Jay has finally caved in and agreed to play racquetball with Cameron. Granted, Jay is not thrilled about the prospect because the locker room atmosphere is one of the things he goes to a gym for.

Well, clearly a lot more showed than either of them wanted. As both took off their street clothes, following a slightly uncomfortable discussion about the fact that Jay wears boxers and Cam always thought he was a tighty-whitey guy, they accidentally bump their glutei maximi. Of course, Jay is freaking out too much and Cameron isn't freaking out enough.

CAMERON: Oh, come on. All the time you've spent in the locker room, this can't be your first moon landing.

JAY: There's actually a name for it?!

After discovering his bus stop billboard had a mustache drawn on him, Phil decides he's going to try and rock the Tom Selleck look. He puts on a mustache from an old costume.

PHIL: Do people want their real estate advice from someone who leads or someone who follows? I'm betting' these babies are coming back in a big way. Buy low, sell high. People are going to look at this and say, "That guy's high."

Claire meets with her ex-coworker, Valerie. Claire had decided that she wanted to be a stay-at-home mom and she felt a bit smug that Valerie seemed to be jealous. It turns out that Valerie was now an executive at Claire's old company, and Claire probably could have had that job if she stayed around. And then Valerie was given another promotion in Paris. Claire had it wrong: Valerie wasn't jealous of her, Valerie pitied her. Now Claire wants to bring her back to her house to show everything that she missed: the kids, the house, having only one lover instead of four...

Mitchell and Gloria talk about her accident. She claims a guy cut her off, but Manny, the only other witness, secretly tells Mitchell that Gloria was at fault. She was going 100 mph and she can't take criticism of her driving. As it happens, Jay, who claims he lost to Cameron because he was distracted by the "moon landing", also didn't have the guts to tell Gloria she can't drive, so he dumped it on Mitchell. Naturally, Manny suddenly pleads the 5th in front of his mother, and Gloria reads Mitchell the riot act.

Claire brings Valerie to meet the family, but perhaps the timing was a bit off. Haley was throwing Dylan's stuff out the window, Luke was trying to understand the appeal of Jägermeister, and Alex was trying to kill a rat. And that's before Phil got stuck in the port-a-pottie outside with the water turned off in the house. The good news is, Valerie finds the rat, which isn't nearly as gross as Haley and Dylan making up (and making out). Claire freaks out at them and leaves, but later, she feels bad and all she wants is to be at home with her family and when she returns home everyone is happy again. She appreciates that they let her slide on yelling at them when she was trying to impress Valerie.

Jay decides to have a return match to prove he can beat Cameron in racquetball. He is successful and is so proud of himself that he decides he can handle the "moon landing," and even the "splashdown," which is a moon landing right out of the shower. Now if only Cameron was there when he demonstrated that and not the large bald man that was.

Gloria finally apologizes to Mitchell and admits she may not be the best driver, if crashing into the wall of the restaurant is any indication.

(The characters striked out do not appear in this episode)

In the Greek version, this is kind of different and extended; Faye speaks also to her father and husband and not just her children and asks them what does she find when she brings home someone she wants to impress, then tells them what she finds:

---

## [Up All Night](https://modernfamily.fandom.com/wiki/Up_All_Night)

A little switch on the documentary style: the kids are giving the interviews this week. There is a good reason for this. Among the many things their parents tell them was to act like adults. Apparently, playing with a Water Weasel is one way to do it, going by what Phil did. He ends up in a bit of pain, but he doesn't feel the need to get an ambulance, mainly because he doesn't want his wife or daughters drooling over the hot firemen the town has.

Manny shouldn't drool over his teacher, either, but he can drool over the boat his biological father brought, albeit one day late. Jay is not happy about Manny's father dropping by, especially with his tardiness and the way he used to treat Gloria, but he'll play nice for their sake. Besides, Javier is only going to stay one night, much to Jay's surprise.

Mitchell and Cameron are at odds over Lily, mainly because they're attempting to ferberize Lily. In other words, get her to sleep on her own and not come after her every time she cries. You can probably guess who is not very good at sticking to it. To be fair, though, Cameron thinks showing Lily "Scarface" helps with color recognition. (The nightclub massacre is her favorite part). However, Mitch is getting upset over it. So much so, he shows Cameron the baby-cam tape of him going in every single time to get Lily. In fact, Mitch takes time off of work just to keep an eye on Cam so that he doesn't do it. That doesn't work, and Mitch has to literally drag Cameron away from Lily's room. His reward is a twisted ankle and an admission that he doesn't always want to have to play the "bad cop" in their relationship with Lily. Cameron compromises by agreeing to make Lily eat her vegetables and insist she go to the dentist.

It turns out Phil had a more serious pain than he led on: a kidney stone. His histrionics aside, he does try to prevent Claire from calling 911 because he knows she, Alex, and Haley will go nuts for the hot firefighters. He is forced to relent when the pain gets to be too much, but he does notice Claire putting on a nicer top and lipstick for their arrival. Alex notices the heels, though. She finally admitted to it, and he had something on her he would cash in at some later point. The later point was as he left the hospital, where one very hot woman wanted to hug him goodbye for being so funny and teaching them card tricks. So did her hotter sister...and hot mom as well. No convertible or trip to Paris with his buddies anymore.

Jay is woken up during the night by Javier's pool playing. He goes downstairs to talk to him, but Javier gets to talking to Jay, wondering why he doesn't do the things he used to, like ride his motorcycle or play baseball. They decide to stay up and have Jay work on hitting a curveball. They take Manny to Dodgers Stadium to hit the ball around. In the morning, it's Gloria who isn't happy, since Jay is suddenly smitten with Javier, and Manny can't stay awake. Javier bringing motorcycles by didn't really help matters. Later on, Jay is worried that Javier didn't show up to take him to the bar. Gloria has her revenge on Jay because he made fun of her being "seduced" by Javier...like Jay is being seduced now.

---

## [Truth Be Told](https://modernfamily.fandom.com/wiki/Truth_Be_Told)

The Dunphy's are trying to arrange their schedules, but Alex has cello practice, Junior Congress, and "no boys," according to Haley. Phil has to meet an old girlfriend for drinks. Everybody wants a slice of Phil: he has 447 Facebook friends. Denise is recently divorced and is a door-to-door cosmetics salesperson.

Manny loses a part in a play, but Jay has a "What doesn't kill you makes you stronger" picture for Manny's room. However, a friend's grandfather disproves that theory by having a heart attack and needing a machine to breathe. Jay might need that breathing machine for Manny's turtle, Shell Turtlestein. When Jay was hanging the poster over the turtle's glass house, it fell and crushed the poor thing. Jay acted like a man...and said a raccoon did it, complete with claw marks and acorn shells.

Cam and Mitch are taking Lily to see animals. Cam is, anyway. He grew up on a farm and wanted animals to be a big part of her life. Mitchell has his own animal to deal with: his domineering boss. Mitch agrees that his boss is a real SOB...and accidentally tells him so in the next car over in traffic. Naturally, Mitchell and Cam have to recreate the scene in the middle of the street, but at least we know Cam is a big Isley Brothers fan.

Claire can't believe Phil doesn't think Denise doesn't have ulterior motives, but Phil insists it's on the up-and-up by arranging the meet at the house. Meanwhile Luke is terrified, because Alex teases him into thinking he's been adopted, and Denise plans to take him back home after her visit. Claire immediately apologizes because Denise is very friendly and kind. She excuses herself to go to the bathroom, and Phil shows her how to get there. She decides she wants to show Phil how to get into her pants. Phil is, to say the least, confused.

Mitchell is at work (on a Saturday), when his boss decides to pull a Bill Lumbergh and tells him to come in on Sunday. After seeing a picture on the phone of Lily standing for the first time (which his boss couldn't care less about), Mitchell decides he won't blow a chance to be with his family on a Sunday. His boss threatens to fire him if he doesn't, and Mitchell walks, taking his ID with him (so he can take the elevator down to freedom) and his coffee mug. Mitchell and Cameron celebrate...until they realize they don't have any money coming in. Mitchell starts to panic, but Cameron insures him that everything will be OK.

Manny has a memorial service for Shell Turtlestein at Jay's request, but Manny can't finish the speech. Manny is about to take the blame for Shell because he left a bag of potato chips open for the raccoon, but Jay says...Shell forgives him. Sure enough, Gloria and Manny guilt him into the truth. Jay confesses that he was afraid he was making the same mistakes as a father to Mitchell. Manny is touched and is about to confess about the scratch on Jay's car, but Jay insists a raccoon did that. But the poster found a new home at Mitchell's house, although it was there when his snake, Zsa Zsa Gaboa, died.

Claire loves going through the pictures of Denise, although she didn't see the one Denise snapped just for Phil. He talks to Claire in the kitchen about it, but she feels so bad for being suspicious before, she can't believe Denise would do such a thing, even though Denise does grab Phil's derrière and offers to get naked right then and there. Phil tells her no, but she can't believe he talked to her on Facebook for a year and didn't want anything. However, it appears Phil wanted something back then. He was still dating Denise when he dated Claire. Denise thinks he should spend a lonely night in a hotel. Like the Radisson. Near the airport.

---

## [Benched](https://modernfamily.fandom.com/wiki/Benched)

It's BBQ night at Phil and Claire's house. Of course, Jay MUST control the grill, over Phil's protests. After all, those steaks were done five minutes ago. But Phil is sympathetic to it.

PHIL: It's just Jay being Jay. But one day, I'm going to be a grandfather and everybody better hide their meat.

The roles are a bit reversed with Mitchell and Cameron right now. Mitch is enjoying his time as a stay-at-home dad (so he says), and Cameron can't get enough of his 40% discount at the greeting card store where he works part-time now. Naturally, things can't stay this way and the relationship survive. One of Jay's golfing pals, Charlie Bingham, might have a job for Mitchell, and they plan to meet at his beach house this weekend. Mitchell and Cam discuss it. More like letting the other person decide and quietly suffer because they're not currently doing the thing they want (Mitch working and Cam being a stay-at-home dad/trophy wife) but don't want to tick their partner off. Mitchell decides to take the meeting rather than having to plan the death of Dora the Explorer.

Luke and Manny play on a basketball team where the coach is mean and verbally abusive. Claire and Gloria have already stated their disdain for him, and Phil has threatened to break out "The Captain and Tennille." Jay thinks that they're overreacting, but the evidence is out there. The coach is doing nothing but calling his players names, and one too many beratings of Manny and Luke later, Phil asks the coach to be more positive. That obviously didn't work, so Jay threatens the coach, who decides to quit in the middle of the game. Phil berates Jay, saying he was taking care of it. Obviously, he broke out Peaches and Herb. ("That's The Captain and Tennille").

Phil tells the team he is the new coach, but Jay decides he will be the new coach. But Phil can be the assistant...if he can round up some water for the guys. Even though Jay only coached football and Phil coached basketball, he decides to back off because there's a fine line with fathers-in-law between respecting them and not letting them push you around. On the other hand, Manny could use more of the old-school tough love than the s-mothering that Gloria is giving him, which is getting him grief from the other players.

Claire doesn't feel like consoling Phil, so she takes Alex to buy some clothes. Alex, however, asks her to leave so she can hang out with her friends from school. It's official: Alex is a teenager, and Claire is depressed. Fortunately, Gloria stops by with Lily and Claire is more than happy to go take Lily to buy a new dress, leaving Gloria in the lurch. Six dresses later, Gloria wants her baby time with Lily. But she sees Alex blow off Claire again and sympathizes. Gloria is just as upset for Manny chasing her out of the gym as Claire was about Alex. They love hanging out with Lily because she won't tell them to back off and always loves them.

CLAIRE: You know what we should do?

GLORIA: Get pregnant!

CLAIRE: Actually, I was going to suggest ice cream.

GLORIA: OK. We do yours first.

Alex eventually returns and tells Claire she still loves her. Of course, she only buttered Claire up to borrow some money to go out with her friends. Claire is more than happy to give it to her. She even gives her extra because she tells Alex she'll need to buy a training bra soon...in front of her friends, and she drives off talking about how her revenge has been a success.

Mitchell is impressed by Charlie Bingham's house. It even has a turntable in the driveway to point your car back out. With the rubber surfing outfit he greets Mitchell and Cameron with...they get down to business. Mitchell talks about his job, but Cam wants to point out that Mitchell used to be a great figure skater, makes sure he sucks out every last drop of his drink, and accidentally knocks over a vase in Charlie's house. Charlie still wants to offer him a job managing how he spends his money with environmental groups, but Mitchell has to discuss the situation with his "bull in a China shop". They go into the garage. Cameron couldn't relax in that house because he really wanted Mitchell to take the job but thought he would be preventing Mitchell from quality dad time with Lily. Mitchell desperately wants the job, and Cameron wants desperately for him to have the job. They agree, hug, and go back into the house...if they can unlock the garage door. Mitchell hits what he thinks is the opener, but it was the turntable outside, which proceeds to smash their car into another car. A Ferrari, no less. Mitchell will definitely take the job, since it'll take time to pay for the damages.

Jay can't get the kids to do anything on the court and is about to lose it. He concedes defeat and begs Phil to coach. Phil wants Jay to admit that he can do some things better than him, and that his steaks would have been just as good. Jay relents, Phil coaches, and the kids still lose the game. But at least they're playing better.

---

## [Not in My House](https://modernfamily.fandom.com/wiki/Not_in_My_House)

At the Dunphy house, things are routine. Phil is ordering a pizza....in the morning. Haley accuses Alex of looking through her journal, and Claire has some porn on her laptop. Apparently, a picture of a woman on a tractor (a combine, according to Phil) who was topless. She suspected Luke of the crime, but Phil was the actual culprit and hasn't 'fessed up yet. He's waiting for Claire to calm down about it first. Phil insists on talking to Luke about it, rather than having Claire go at him. And Phil follows through. He talks to Luke about seeing things on the computer...and asks Luke how to delete them.

Jay likes to hit Vegas and decided not to take his "house money" and dump it back into the casino or see a show. He bought a six-foot dog dressed in a tuxedo who holds your mail and keys. It's Barkley the Butler. Gloria hates it, since is scares the hell out of her every time she passes it.

Mitchell and Cameron are going to see the Russian Marionettes. Cameron prefers his favorite childhood memory over Mitch's marionettes, the 3rd largest water slide in the country near his boyhood home in Missouri. Before they go, they have to take care of the crying gardener. They, meaning Cameron. He knows a little Spanish, but apparently telling the gardener to 'sit down' translates into 'go to the bedroom.'

After Gloria tries to hide Barkley and "accidentally" cuts Barkley's coat with her bracelet, Jay is not exactly thrilled. She can't believe that he's upset with her about "an unholy cross between a man and beast," but he decides to pick a fight about the numerous pillows on their bed. Wrong strategy.

GLORIA: Oh, don't worry. It'll be a long time before I bother you again with my pillows.

Phil continues his charade with Claire about punishing Luke, even taking it to a new level. He decides to play it as "just between us men" and even manages to scam some free...pizza.

Mitch and Phil can't get Cesar the gardener out of their bedroom, and Mitch is getting upset that Cameron insists on trying to solve everyone's problems. Cameron cuts it off and says he'll go to the puppet show. As soon as Cesar's bride stops by the house and goes to him...and someone's parents. Mitchell goes alone to pick up Manny at his father's house, but Manny doesn't want to go to a puppet show. Mitch is having enough with Cameron already, but Jay cuts him off. Jay is out trying to fix Barkley, and he points out how lucky both of them are. He found a woman that made him happy, and Mitch found an incredibly caring guy.

JAY: Who are we kidding? We both got it good. Hell, I fight with your mom more than I fight with Gloria. We're both with people different from us and that's gonna create stuff. But you want different. Your mother and I were perfect on paper, and you know how that ended. What I got now...is a lot better. People look at us, sure, and sometimes even I can't believe we're together. But we're happy! And at the end of the day, there's no one I'd rather come home to.

A beautiful speech...if only Jay wasn't holding Barkley's hand when he said it in full view of Gloria.

It turns out that Luke read Haley's diary while he was on the computer, but Haley took her revenge out on Alex by drawing all over her signed photo of Maya Angelou.

It turned out that Cesar was having wedding day jitters, and Mitch came home to apologize to Cameron for not liking that he cared. Cameron was extremely forgiving and thought it would be a good idea to attend Cesar's wedding. Fortunately, they didn't have to go far to see it. Just inside the house.

Luke decides to confess to Claire for looking, and Claire understands that can happen. Luke said parts of it were weird, and Claire assured him that many parts weren't real. Luke couldn't believe Haley did that. Whoops. Claire is REALLY freaked out now. It turns out that Luke was confessing about reading Haley's diary, which Claire has done as well, and Claire thought Luke was talking about looking at the topless picture. Of course, this happens in front of everybody. Now Claire demands to know who was looking at porn. That's when Phil walks in on cue, causing Claire to realise it was him. He tries to apologize.

CLAIRE: I wasn't upset about the picture, I was upset that I thought it was Luke. Haley has always been in her own world, and Alex was never really a kid, so that leaves Luke, my little baby. Is it really too much to ask to stay a sweet, innocent kid...forever?

Jay delivers Barkley to Mitch and Cameron, and Gloria follows behind asking who was getting married. Perhaps Jay shouldn't be holding Barkley's hands right now...in front of the priest.

(The characters striked out do not appear in this episode)

---

## [Travels with Scout](https://modernfamily.fandom.com/wiki/Travels_with_Scout)

Phil's father Frank comes over from Cocoa Beach in his RV to visit the family. He also brings a dog called Scout to give it to them, as he can't raise it because his wife Grace is allergic to dogs. Claire as expected is angry at this as she expects the family not to help with the dog and she will do all the work. While taking the trash out, Claire overhears Frank crying in his RV and thinks that has something to do with Grace. Claire tells Phil, but Phil doesn't believe it. Claire convinces Phil to ask his father what is wrong, though when he gets ready to ask, Phil instead avoids it with another question. Claire continues to be bothered by Scout, though it becomes clear she begins bonding with it. When Frank is about to leave, Phil finally asks him what is wrong and Frank tells Phil he fell in love, making Phil think his parents are divorcing. Then Frank says he fell in love with a he, Scout. Therefore, the family decides to let Frank keep the dog and Claire, who ends up being the most upset that Scout is leaving, gives Scout her bra. Frank then leaves with Luke chasing the RV like a dog.

Jay takes Manny to the dentist. There he meets Mitchell's old acting friend from High School, Ben Dugan, who keeps acting and is starring in a new film named Maple Drive. Jay, not knowing it is a horror movie, decides to take Manny to the film. Manny is completely frightened by the movie. Back at home, while Jay is fixing their broken doorbell (which repeatedly rings), Gloria gets angry at Jay for taking Manny to a horror film. He tells her that being scared is part of growing up and assures Gloria that Manny will get over this. But when Manny begins sleeping in their bed, he realizes he has to do something. He asks Ben to come to show Manny how likable he is and not be scared anymore. When Ben arrives, he knocks on the window since the doorbell does not work. Manny sees him, and when Ben sees him he tells him that he is there for. Due to the lighting on his face and his fake machete, Manny becomes especially frightened of him and rushes upstairs, much to Jay's disbelief.

Meanwhile, Cameron comes to the Dunphy house to meet Scout and Frank. There, Dylan has bad news that Brian, the drummer of his band, is moving to Portland because his parents are getting back together. Cameron hears this and offers himself to replace Brian, as he used to be a music teacher before he and Mitchell got Lily. Haley tries to convince Dylan to give him an opportunity, and he finally agrees. Cameron's audition is initially bad, but tells Dylan and the other band components he "was holding the sticks in the wrong hands" and when he put them in the other hand, he proves to be a very capable drummer. When Mitchell finds out, he is annoyed since they are going to the après-ski fondue party of their friend Pepper the same day and demands him to cancel the concert. Cameron says no since he always stays with Lily so Mitchell decides to go to the concert then the party. Mitchell ends up staying at the concert, admitting Cameron was amazing, although Cameron ends up showing off by playing a drum solo that is far too long. Afterwards, Brian returns since his parents separated again. Cameron first thinks he is going to stay but soon realizes that he is the one that is going to leave, and sarcastically wishes Brian good luck beating him.

In the end credits, at Dylan's concert, Jay introduces Gloria to Frank, and Frank obviously hits on her, saying that she is hotter than a Las Vegas sidewalk on the 4th of July. Frank asks Jay if he has gone too far, and Jay lies to him, not telling him he has actually gone too far.

---

## [Come Fly with Me](https://modernfamily.fandom.com/wiki/Come_Fly_with_Me)

At the Dunphys' house, Phil is invested in a baseball game. Claire opens the door to throw out the trash and sees Dylan standing outside. He had texted Haley that he was waiting outside her house and she had replied that she was going to be down in a minute. Dylan is then invited in by Phil to watch the last of the game, with Dylan being uncomfortable with sitting next to his girlfriend's father on the sofa. Phil then metaphorically says that the guy on the screen is "stuck in second base and he is trying to steal third which is a terrible, terrible idea", implying Dylan trying to have sex with Haley.

At the Pritchett household, Manny wants to stay at home with Jay and fly his model plane with him, but Gloria wants him to spend time with Luke because Claire invited him over and family needs to spend time together. Jay gets offended when Manny calls his plane a "toy". Gloria says that men need their hobbies, whether they're risking their lives by doing dangerous things such as skydiving off helicopters (like her ex-husband, Javier) or flying little planes from a safe distance (like Jay).

Cam is driving with Mitchell to Costco and has to remind him that this is where they get their new baby, Lily's, diapers from. Cam then says that Mitch is a snob, recalling the time they first met, when Mitch wouldn't look at him because he was a "hick from a farm in Missouri".

Back at the Dunphys', Dylan, unable to bare the awkwardness of sitting with Phil who keeps intimidating him, goes to wait in the car. When Phil tells Claire that he's past being awkward with Dylan, she reminds him of the fact that Phil has still been trying to avoid Claire's dad, Jay, for 16 years, to which Phil tries to defend himself, saying that Jay and him are "total buds".

Gloria and Manny come over to the Dunphy house. Manny has brought his favorite game 'Empire' to play with Luke, who is in the backyard, jumping on a trampoline with a box over his head to which Manny gives a disapproving look. Alex comes in to show Claire the outfit she's wearing to Claire's friend's wedding. Claire states that she needs to wear a dress and, if needed, borrow one from Haley, while Alex complains that Luke, who is playing in his underwear, should wear pants. Claire, who just realises what Luke is wearing, exclaims, "Why does he do this?".

At the Pritchett household, Jay is fixing his plane and Phil is standing silently and awkwardly, not doing anything. Phil describes Jay as a non-hugger and non-talker. He recalls Jay running over his foot with his car, but defends Jay by saying that he had just given up smoking at the time of the incident. Jay says that Phil just awkwardly standing there is making him feel uneasy finally tells him to help him. Phil feels uncomfortable sitting next to Jay on the sofa but does so very awkwardly.

At the Dunphy house, Gloria tells Alex that she should come shopping with her, but Claire tells Gloria that shopping is not Alex’s thing. Alex tells Gloria that she'd love to go and tells her mother that she doesn't know what Alex's 'thing' is. Claire realises what Alex is doing and says that her thing is to provoke, "just like your Haley's thing is to never come out of her room, and Luke's thing, well, there's your brother's thing" pointing to him on the trampoline, still in his underwear.

At the Pritchett house, Phil says in an 'interview': "The thing about me and Jay is our relationship's always been stuck in that primal place; where it started..." He compares their relationship to Jay being an old silverback ape who is protecting his females but when a younger, stronger gorilla (Phil) comes along, the ape ladies (Claire) come running, presenting their nice scarlet behinds. Papa ape wants to stop all that, but can't. Phil feels that Jay doesn't like him because he took his daughter from him. We go back to Phil and Jay fixing the plane, sitting in awkward silence. Jay finally cuts the silence by asking Phil if he wants to go fly it now.

Back at Costco, while shopping, Cam begins to talk about his farm life but Mitch starts rolling his eyes. In an 'interview', Cam states that they met at Pepper's legendary game nights and that Mitch would roll his eyes everytime Cam would get a little boisterous. Mitch tries to defend himself before realizing that he did that. Mitch recalls when they were playing charades and, unsure of what to do, he did a little hand movement for "Casablanca". Without missing a beat, Cam guessed the movie.

We go back to Mitch and Cam shopping. Mitch wants to quickly buy the diapers and get out of there while Cam says that he wants to go to the wine section. Mitch, who has never been to Costco, is in disbelief that there's a wine section in the store. He then spots the paper shredder that he wanted and gets even more excited.

At the Dunphy house, Manny complements the cookies Claire has just baked. Claire asks if Manny and Luke are having a good time. He tells her that Luke won't take the box off his head. Manny instead wants to hang out with his sister- Claire. Claire remembers that she's technically his stepsister. Manny tells her that his mother said never to use the word "step" because it means anything not real while they are a real family. Manny then asks her "What is the matter?" as she seems sad and sympathises with her problems with her kids, especially Alex.

Gloria takes Alex out to eat while shopping where Alex tells her that she doesn't want to wear a dress. Gloria tells her that she isn't her mother and won't tell her what to wear. Gloria tells Alex to think of her as a girlfriend today and says that they will have fun. Alex asks what Gloria usually does with her girlfriends and Gloria says they go out, talk and drink wine. Alex asks if she can drink wine, but Gloria says "no" as she is too young. Gloria tells her that she ask her anything, but Alex says that whenever her mother says the same, she really can't ask her anything as Claire will just freak out. Gloria dismisses this and says that she's not Claire. To test her, Alex asks Gloria many men she has slept with. Gloria, with no hesitation, replies, "8", impressing Alex with her honesty.

We are with Phil and Jay on the fields and they are flying a plane together, Phil and Jay still have awkward air, but they do talk, Phil talks about his thoughts and Jay stops him by saying that he can play with the plane, he tells him that they can do a 'Thredding the Needle' Jay explains the game to him and gives the instructions Phil awaits for the plane to go through the hoop, but Jay gets the plane right in his face. We have a cutscene and come back to them, Phil has blood on his face near his nose and Jay is standing near him over the plane, seeing if anything is broken; not with Phils' face but with the plane.

We are back with Manny and Claire, Manny has now turned into his sisters therapist. Claire complains about

Alex turning against everything she says, Manny tells her that Alex is a strong independent woman, reminding him of Claire. Claire then defends the statement saying she was never hostile, she also says that Alexs' problem with the dress was something she never had with Haley. Manny says that Alex isn't trying to be like Haley, she's trying to create her own identity, if she's put into the wrong box she's going to break out of it, Claire then forgets her brother is only 10 years old, as he acts a knowledgeable adult. Mitch phones his sister asking if she needs Olives, she confirms and he hangs up.

We stay with Mitchell and Cam after he hangs up, he is carrying the olives for Claire in his hands and drops them in their shopping cart, we see they now have two shopping carts because of Mitchells' new found love for Costco. Cam has only just found the diapers, but Mitchell wants to carry on shopping, Mitch stops coffins, and realizes they can buy anything they want from Birth to Death, he then picks up diapers and sees how cheap they are, Mitch says he wants more for the next year or two, Cam asks where they would keep all of the diapers, Mitch spots a shed; Cam asks if they would want to be the guys with a diaper shed, Mitch ignores this and spots more things to buy, leaving his shopping carts behind he tells Cam that he is in the 'Apple Sauce isle' when Cam is told to get a 'flatbed thing'. Mitch and Cam then get "interviewed", Mitch talks about misjudging Cam and talks about what he loves, Cam calls Mitch a snob again after he doesn't remember the shop they went to in Paris, but compares himself to it after, Cam compares himself to Costco; being big, not fancy, and they both dare you to not like them. Mitch tries to get back to happy by making the same gesture Cam guess "Casablanca" with.

We are back with Gloria and Alex, with Gloria telling Alex that she has a flower tattoo on her ankle and a butterfly on her- and replaces an inappropriate body part with her thigh, Alex asks how high up, and she replies with pretty high. Alex asks three questions: Did you do it to look sexy? DId you do it for a guy? Does Grandpa like it? Gloria responds with 'no, no and yes' Alex seems repulsed by the third answer, Alex goes to ask another question, but Gloria stops her, asking her a question: Why she doesn't wanna wear a dress. Alex says she doesn't want to look like Haley and her friends, Gloria reminds her that she wears dresses and doesn't look like Haley, but Alex tells her she is Haley, 40 years older. Gloria tells her 10 years older, but Alex and Gloria make a deal on 20 years older. Gloria asks her why she is fighting her on this, Alex tells her that she is not pretty like her sister, Gloria tells her she is beautiful, but Alex thinks she's not, but that's okay because she is the smart one, Gloria points out that the guy serving her fancies her and they are the only ones receiving bread. Gloria tells her that she is going to want to date a cute boy and she'll want to look beautiful when she does and she'll wear a dress. Alex is fine with this and asks Gloria if she's either kissed another girl before. Gloria declines and says that that's no way to talk to her Grandmother.

We are back with Claire and Manny who are still talking, Claire talks about her younger self and her Mom being hard on her growing up, Gloria and Alex come back and interrupt Manny and Claire's talk, Claire tells Alex she doesn't have to wear a dress, Alex says she already bought one, Claire thinks that she is provoking her, and tells Manny, Manny says they'll have another therapist talk next week. Phil and Jay come through the door, Jay is helping Phil walk, Phil explains that Jay tried crashed the plane into him, and Jay acts like he didn't mean to, however Claire knowing her Dad, already knows the truth and compares the plane situation to the earlier mentioned Jay running over Phil with his car. We switch to Jay and Claire by the stairs and they whisper/argue about Phil, Gloria overhears that Jay has never told Phil that he does likes him, however she switches 'like' with 'love', Jay also corrects Gloria saying Phil isn't his son, Gloria then asks Jay if he thinks of Manny as his son, Jay says that he does whish Manny could have been there. Gloria then asks for which part? Hinting whether or not he wanted him there to replace Phil or beside him and not getting hurt. Phil and Jay have an awkward 'heart to heart' and Claire and Gloria awkwardly watch as Jay tries to compliment Phil.

We see Mitch and Cam come into the Dunphy house, Cam asks what's going on and Gloria tells them Phil and Jay having a heart to heart. Mitch points out that Jay has never said he loves Cam either, Cam says it's okay but Gloria forces Jay to do the same to Cam, which results in Cam, Jay and Phil hugging and Jay telling him that he likes him too as he can't use the word love.

Claire looks over Phil, Jay and Cam hugging as music plays over. We end with Jay and Gloria being "interviewed" in which Gloria says she always wanted a daughter and to dress her up in pretty dresses, do her hair, nails and make up. Gloria then shares a secret than no one knows: for the first year of Manny's life, she dressed him up and told everybody that Manny was her daughter, she then says that she only did it a few times, she didn't want to mess with his head, when Manny found out, she said that it was his twin sister who died. Gloria receives a look from Jay that he gives to the camera.

---

## [Fizbo](https://modernfamily.fandom.com/wiki/Fizbo)

We open with everybody gathering at the hospital, but we don't know what's going on yet. Jay is beside himself, in spite of Mitchell's reassurances that it could have been worse. He wanted to know how this could happen.

We have 'A few days earlier' written on the screen as we go all the way back to being in the house of the Dunphys', where Luke comes down and Phil asks Luke what he wants for his birthday. Luke tells Phil that he doesn't want anything, Phil insists that Luke tells him what he wants telling him 'Sky's the Limit' and 'dream big my boy', which prompts Luke to tell him more. Luke tells Phil that he could use a belt, Claire asks 'A belt?' and then Luke changes his mind and says 'Yeah you're right', I don't need it, the extension cords works pretty good.', we look down to see that Luke doesn't have a belt instead has replaced it with an extension cord. Claire and Phil are "interviewed" where Phil says that every year Luke's birthday falls right around thanksgiving and so it gets lost in the holiday shuffle.

Claire then says that one year they forgot completely and they had to improvise a cake of stuffing, Phil jumps in with: "which by the way he was fine with, he's one of those kids: you get him a gift and all he wants to do is play with the box". Claire then says that one year they just got him a box, a really nice box, Phil then tells us that they made a mistake of putting it inside a gift bag, and all Luke did was play with the gift bag. They end with "we can't get it right".

We come back to Phil; and Claire. Phil tells Claire that he feels terrible and they have to do something about Luke's birthday, Claire tells Phil that the whole family is coming around for thanksgiving and they haven't come around for thanksgiving in a really long time and Phil tells Claire that he is with her: "We should blow this out and throw Luke the best birthday party of all time" to which Claire agrees with. Claire says that they'll order a whole bunch of pizzas and set up an arts and crafts table. Phil, who is taken by surprise, asks Claire: "a what?", Claire repeats what she says: an arts and crafts table and then explains: "Where everybody gathers around and they make stuff, and then bam!- they got their own party favor." Phil starts to snore after this and say "Sorry. I fell asleep while you were describing the most boring party ever." He then starts to laugh but is stopped when Claire then punches him.

[INTRO THEME SONG]

We are at the household of Mitchell and Cameron, where Cam tells Phil he'll see him in a few hours as Phil gives Cam gratitude for the karaoke machine, and tells him that he'll give it back to him after Luke's birthday party. Cam thanks Phil. Mitch whispers to Phil not to bring it back: "Please don't. I beg you. Don't bring it back.", just as Phil is about to leave, Cam asks Phil if he's getting a clown for Luke's birthday party. Phil replies with an implied no, when Cam asks 'Really?' Phil affirms and Cam asks "Has he ever seen a good one?". Phil questions 'Has anyone?' and chuckles the awkwardness off. Phil finally leaves and Cam exclaims: "No clown? No clown!?", Mitch tells Cam to let it go. However Cam doesn't "Who throws a party without a clown?" Mitch tells Cam: "Since the late '30s, I'd say most people", Cam tells Mitch they haven't got Luke a present and that maybe a clown could be their present. Mitchell tells Cam to calm down and that if Phil and Claire wanted to get Luke a clown they would've and then tells Cam that "it's not our party". Cam exclaims "But-", and is cut off by Mitch telling Cam that it's not their party again. Cam asks what Mitch would suggest and Mitch tells him they will get him a gift card, Cam, surprised by Mitch's words, asks "a gift card?, who hurt you?".

We are now with Gloria and Jay at their house, where Jay asks Gloria how to wrap a crossbow. Gloria asks him if it's a crossbow to check, Jay affirms and asks if he's "the best grandpa in the world or what?" Gloria tells Jay that he can't give Luke a crossbow as she says "he pokes himself in the eye every time he uses a straw", Jay tells Gloria that he had one when he was Luke's age, and tells Gloria that his Dad used to give him a quarter for every cow he bagged. Gloria tells him that she used to have a machete, but times have changed.

Jay tells Gloria that Luke will be fine if he teaches him. Manny walks in and asks if he's charming to which Jay sighs and says: "Oh, boy", Gloria tells Manny he is and asks who told him he's not charming, Manny tells Gloria that no one told him he wasn't but there's a girl in his school that he wants to like him. He then asks for Jay's advice. Jay asks "Really?" and Manny tells him that the girl will be at Luke's party. Jay implies he's surprised that Manny would ask him for advice, as he wouldn't go to him he would go to his Mom. Manny then tells Jay that it seems to be an area in which he's done pretty well (pointing to Gloria). Gloria tells Jay he has a point. Manny states that he's tried everything to get her attention: "...Opening doors, having a milk sent over in the cafeteria. Nothing's worked.", Jay tells him that girls do go for all that romantic stuff, they go for power and success and Jay then tells Manny that since he doesn't have any one of those he tells him to be the funny one.

We are back with Phil, who is at the front of his house talking to a zookeeper named Tanya, asking for the most dangerous reptile she has, she tells him that she has an iguana that eats crickets. Phil tells her that it'd only be scary if it was a birthday party for crickets, and then tells her to step it up a notch. He asks if there's anything that scares the crap or as Phil puts 'cocoa' out of her. Tanya tells him that there isn't much that scares her, she then says that she has a bearded dragon, Phil is about to ask her if it breathes fire, which she latches onto and tells him no. Phil then says that he's back to square one.

We are now back with Cam, in an "interview" he says: "I know I made a promise to Mitchell, but some things are bigger than promises. Fizbo would be at that party." While Cam is saying this we see him in the bathroom staring at the mirror whilst putting on makeup to turn into Fizbo the Clown. Cam then says: "Hello old friend.".

We are back at the hospital where, Haley says it all happened so fast. Jay then says "I keep thinking there was something I could've done", Mitchell tells Jay not to blame himself, as no one could have possibly seen it coming.

We, again, see  'earlier that day'  appear on the screen as we are flashback to being back at the household of the Dunphys', we are outside at the front, where Claire and Phil are, Claire notices a rockwall being carried and asks Phil if it's going to be safe, Phil asks the rock climbing operator if anyone has ever gotten hurt on them, he tells Phil and Claire that he doesn't know and it's his first day. Phil misreads Claires' worry and tells her: "See? They wouldn't let the new guy do it if it-" but is cut off by Claire telling Phil that what the operator said did not make her feel any better. Phil tells Claire to relax. Claire asks Phil when they decided all this and tells Phil that she thinks it's a little too much, Phil tells her that he didn't tell her about it because he knew she'd say that and tells her to just relax and grab a snow cone. Claire asks "There's a snow cone machine?" and Phil tells her yes.

Haley comes up to Claire and Phil telling them that Dylan cannot have mayonnaise. Claire says: "That's random. Why are you telling me that?" and Haley informs them that he's coming to the party. Claire, not liking Dylan very much, asks: "Is that absolutely necessary?", Alex who has just appeared, tells Claire: "Yes, because she can't go 10 minutes without her boyfriend's tongue in her mouth. It's like he's feeding a baby bird." Haley tells her not to be so jealous and that she'll meet someone at 'Computer Camp'. Claire tells off her girls. Phil asks what Claire has been holding for the past 2 minutes. Claire tells Phil that it's supplies for the crafts table: "I finally figured out what we're gonna be making.", Phil jumps in with: "Kids bored?" which receives a look from Claire.

Phil laughs the awkwardness off again: "I'm teasing, I'm teasing! It looks good, what is it?", Claire pulls it out and says "Comb sheaths", which receives a look from Phil. Claire says: "I know. I know. But we made them when I was 11 years old at Donna Rigby's birthday party. At first we thought it was really stupid, and then we had a blast, so-" Phil interrupts with: "How could you not? You combined the two things that kids love the most- combs and sheaths.". Claire walks away from him, and Phil shouts that he's kidding. Claire is then "interviewed" where she says: "Where's my comb? Oh! Here it is in my incredibly convenient beaded comb sheath that I made at Luke's awesome birthday party. Hole in one, Mrs. Dunphy. Hole, in, one."

We come back to the household of Cam and Mitch, Mitchell has just arrived home telling Cam that he's home and he "got Luke a video game, but it's about math. So I guess we're those kind of uncles" and calls out for Cam, Cam comes out and says don't be mad, he comes out in his Fizbo costume. Mitchell sighs an "Oh, Cam uh". Mitch and Cam are then "interviewed", where Cam says: "I've known I wanted to be a clown since I found out clowns were just people with makeup. Um, as a matter of fact, by the time I was a teenager, if I wasn't in school or fishin', I was clownin'. There are four types of clowns- a tramp, an Auguste, a whiteface and a character. I am a classically trained Auguste clown named Fizbo." Mitch is trying not to laugh the entire way through his speech and after Cam is finished he can feel Mitch laughing at him: "What?" Mitch tells him "Nothing" but says "Between the clownin' and the fishin', I'm surprised you had time for the schoolin'.", "Aw, and there's the fifth type- 'the sad clown'." Cam corrects Mitch: "A sad clown is a tramp, so there's still only four types." Cam and Mitch swap looks twice; Cam seems very sassy during the looks. We come back to Mitch standing in his living room with Cam dressed as Fizbo. Mitch says: "Cam, I thought we discussed this", Cam tells Mitch that they did discuss it but "this isn't about you or me. This is about a little boy who deserves some happiness." Mitch asks if he's gonna get that from his "weird gay clown-uncle", Cam corrects Mitch: "Fizbo is not gay, he's asexual", "he's an innocent, whose only drive is to bring people joy and laughter and balloon animals. He's-He's the least sexual being on earth.", Mitch tells Cam that at least they agree on something. We see Fizbo make a sad face.

We come back to the Dunphys', Phil is filming the bouncy castle. Phil says "If this tape is found in the future, this is how we humans celebrated birthdays.", Luke shouts "Hey, Dad" whilst coming down a zipline. Phil turns the camera around to Luke, and says "Yeah, there's my boy. Zip-line extreme-" and is cut off by Luke slamming into the camera. Phil gets hit and is on the floor, he gets up and says that he's good while the zipline instructor has taken Luke off the zipline already. Phil says: "Lesson learned. Don't stand-Don't stand there. Let's go and rope this area off. Excellent. Thank you.", Luke comes back and Phil asks if he's having fun, Luke tells him yes and that he loves his new belt. They are interrupted by Claire calling Luke asking if he wants to make a comb sheath, which no one seems to want to, Claire explains, "It's a cool leather holder for your comb. And you can decorate it. I've got beads and glitter and all kinds of stuff." Claire again asks if he wants to and Luke tells her no and explains that he wants to rock climb. Claire then tells Luke that it's fine and it's his day. Phil then mocks Claire "Honey, let me know if you get low on supplies. I'll make a quick run back to the 1950s for you." Phil then gets hit again.

We come back to Cam and Mitch, Mitchell is driving them to Luke's birthday party. Cam asks Mitchell if he remembered to switch the whites to the dryer and Mitch tells Cam he forgot, Cam informs Mitch that they're going to smell musty. Mitch tells Cam that he knows and he's sorry. Cam tells Mitch that he'll get out and fill the car up with gas. Mitch tells Cam to stay and he'll do it, Cam says that he gets it: Mitch is worried about people seeing him. Mitch affirms "without question" and Cam tells him that everyone will stare anyway, since they're not used to seeing one clown in a car. Mitchell then slams the door.

We are back at Luke's birthday party, where Jay, Gloria and Manny have arrived, the camera focuses on Bianca before blurring her out and focusing on Jay, Gloria and Manny. Manny points her out to Jay and Gloria, Gloria tells Manny that Bianca is so cute, Manny informs them that she has good handwriting and is the complete package, Manny asks Gloria and Jay to wish him luck.

Jay tells Manny that he doesn't need luck, he just needs to remember the jokes he told him, Manny walk forward and approaches Bianca and her set of friends. Manny tells Bianca that they "have to stop meeting like this", Bianca asks what he's talking about, Manny tells her that they go to school together and Bianca then understands who he is. Manny asks Bianca if she likes jokes to which she says yes and Manny starts making them, awkwardly and badly. Manny says: "So a grasshopper named Gary walks into a bar" and then Manny realizes he's made a mistake as Bianca isn't supposed to know the grasshoppers name. Manny then tries another joke: "Knock, knock." to which Bianca replies "Who's there?" and Manny says "Interrupting Cow" Bianca replies "Interrupting Cow who?" Manny then replies "Moo" and then realizes he's made a mistake again.

We come back to Mitch and Cam, where a guy has just arrived in his car, which we see he bumps Mitchell with, Mitchell says "Hey!" and he replies "Hey yourself, move", Mitchell then tells him that he just bumped him with his car, the guy replies with "I don't think so", Mitchell then makes it evident with evidence: there's grease on his pants, and he felt it. The guy then tells him to call an ambulance. Mitchell then tells him that he though the guy might want to know in case he wanted to be a decent human being and apologize.

Mitchell then calls him an 'ass' under his breath, the guy gets angry and asks aggressively 'What did you say' to which Mitchell calms down and tells him to forget about it. We then see Cam as Fizbo start to get out of the car, the guy says: "Listen, Carrot Top. I didn't touch you. So do the smart thing: Shut your hole, get in your car and drive away.", we see Fizbo (Cam) ask if there's a problem between Mitch and him. The guy asks what Fizbo is and Fizbo tells him that he is an "ass kicking clown that'll twist you like a balloon animal" and tells him: "I will beat your head against this bumper until the air bags deploy. So apologize to my boyfriend right now!" the guy gets confused asking "Apologize? Boyfriend?" Fizbo gets impatient and says "Apologize!" the guy gets scared and apologizes to Fizbo but Fizbo points to Mitchell and the guy apologizes again, this time to Mitchell. The guy then walks away and Fizbo pulls out a clock and says: "Let's go we're gonna be late". As Mitch and Fizbo get back into the car, we see evidently smile hard as he is impressed by Fizbo's actions and it seems that he's finally starting to be fine with Camerons' 'Fizbo'.

We come back to Luke's birthday party, where Manny is on the bouncy castle, Gloria asks if Manny would mind if she came in, Manny tells Gloria to come in and Gloria then tells him to sit down with her and asks why Manny bounces so sad. Manny tells her that he told all his jokes and got nowhere: "It turns out, I'm not the funny guy", Gloria tells him that the right girl will find him when it's time even though she's going to hate losing her son to another woman, Manny reassures her that she'll never lose him and he'll always love her no matter what. Gloria hugs him, smiling and laughing, she tells him that it's right there. Manny doesn't need any tricks he just needs to be himself, a sweet little boy, Manny then says: "Sweet little boy, got it, she won't know what hit her", Manny then gets off the bouncy castle as Gloria tells him "Vaya para allá!" which means "Go over there!". Manny walks past Claire as she asks whether or not he'd want to make a "sweet comb sheath" and Manny tells her "Could not be a worse time, Claire", Phil walks up to her and says "it's peaceful and quiet over here", Claire tells Phil that if he's come over here to gloat, she already knows it's dud. Phil tells her that he came over to give her a blue flavored snow cone. Claire gives mahalos to Phil, Phil then compliments her hair, Claire then says that she's been combing it all day.

We are now inside the house of the Dunphys', where Luke has an Pogona on his head, Tanya then tells the crowd to applaud Luke for being so brave. Luke says that the Pogona feels weird, and asks what the Pogona eats and Tanya says "just little boy brains" trying to scare everyone. We then see Alex standing by Haley and Dylan, Alex says "Well at least Luke's got nothing to worry about", Alex then walks off and Dylan asks Haley if there's Mayo in what he's eating, to which Haley replies with a no. Haley then says: "So I was thinking that maybe we could go slip away" but is interrupted by Tanya asking if anyone wants to pet the Pogona, which Dylan gets excited to pet and walks over leaving Haley alone. Dylan then says that he loves lizards while holding the Pogona and asks what his name is, Tanya corrects him saying that her name is 'Lizzy', Dylan then says "Wow, I totally get that." Alex is now back with Haley and says "You don't deserve this" and Haley asks what, Alex tells her that Dylan and Tanya may be hitting it off, Haley corrects her saying that they're just talking, Alex then says that she's right and Dylan is far too sophisticated to get sucked in by a single lady with tons of cool tattoos, we then see Dylan tell Tanya that he thinks the Pogona just peed on him, they laugh it out and we see Haley smile and then take the smile off of her face and start to wonder if Alex is right.

We're back outside, with Jay who sees a bunch of men circled around the bouncy castle while someone is jumping on it, Jay asks what he;'s missing and then realizes that Gloria is jumping up and down on the bouncy castle, Gloria then says: "Jay, look! I go high! Look! Look!", Jay then tells all of the guys to go away: "Guys hit the road. Come on. You're family men. Come on. Scat.". We then see Luke climbing the rock wall and Phil giving Luke encouragement, Phil then says: "Now comes the fun part. Rappel down." Luke then says that it's seems really high, Phil then tells Luke that he has nothing to fear but fear itself.. and the concrete, but he's right there and will catch him. Phil is then "interviewed" where he says: "I am brave. Roller coasters? Love 'em. Scary movies? I've seen Ghostbusters, like, seven times. I regularly drive through neighborhoods that have only recently been gentrified. So yeah, I'm pretty much not afraid of anything." we then see Fizbo and Mitchell arrive, Fizbo says: "Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, everybody! Quit your clownin' around. That's my job" and we come back to Phil's "interview" where he says "Except clowns, ever shared that with the fam, so shh. Do have an image to maintain. I am not really sure where the fear comes from. My mother says it's because when I was a kid, I found a dead clown in the woods, but who knows?" We come back to Fizbo, Phil, Cam and Luke, Fizbo sees Luke and says: "Well, you must be the birthday boy." Luke asks "Is that you, Uncle Cam?", Fizbo chuckles and then denies it: "No, I'm Fizbo the Clown, I don't know who this Uncle Cam is, but he sure sounds handsome, doesn't he?" and then asks who likes balloon animals, we then hear Phil says: "It's just Cam, it's just Cam", Mitchell over hears this and asks if Phil is ok, Phil tells him that he has a complicated relationship with clowns, and Mitchell tells him to join the club, implying that he has a complicated relationship with Cam as Fizbo.

We are now back inside the house, where Manny is about to approach Bianca again, he opens with: "Look, I came on strong with that whole funny guy bit. This is me just being myself." However Bianca is only concentrating on Haley's boyfriend, Dylan,: "Hey, do you know who that boy is over there?", Manny then points out that she is looking at Dylan, Bianca then says he's tall and cute, to which Manny replies, "I'm still growing. Give me a break.", Manny walks off and Fizbo walks in, talking to Bianca, "Pardon me, miss, but this little doggy needs a new home." Fizbo gives Bianca the balloon doggy and Bianca thanks him, we see Phil in the background walk into the room and steadily try to be comfortable with the fact that there's a clown in the room, he grabs a bowl of popcorn. Jay walks in and starts to talk to Fizbo: "That's quite an impressive getup you got there.", Cam thanks Jay, and Fizbo tells Jay that he has something on his shoulder, and pulls out the word 'something' and puts it on his shoulder, Jay laughs and tells him that was good and then Fizbo says never mind it was nothing, doing the same thing with the word 'nothing'. Jay then says 'we're done' implying things turned bad and he's now bored. We have a cut scene.

We are then in the same room of their house, back with Haley, Alex, Dylan, Tanya and the rest of the kids. Dylan and Tanya are still talking, Alex then says that she was messing with her sister before but they really haven't stopped talking to each other, Haley realizes this and says that she's on it. and lets out a poisonous scorpion, however she doesn't know that, she takes a step back after wards and then informs Tanya that one of her bugs go out and shows her which one, Tanya goes into panic mode and Dylan asks her if everything is okay she tells Dylan that she lost a poisonous scorpion and really needs to find it, she tells the kids to tuck their pants into their socks and play a game of: 'Look at where we step'.

We go forward, where the family are at the hospital, Claire comes through a door and Haley, Alex, Jay and Mitchell are waiting for her, Haley asks; "Is he OK?", Mitchell asks: "Can we see him?" and Claire informs them that he is in with the doctor and says: "These things happen right? No matter how careful you are?"

We again flashback on the screen 'one hour earlier' appears and we see Luke tell Claire that Jay bought him a crossbow and Claire says that it seems dangerous but Luke tells her not to worry and that Jay is going to teach him, however that's what Claire is worried about. We see Luke run off and Jay says: "Come on, ya ready?!", Mitchell appears and walks over to Claire, "Oh, my God. You are not making comb sheaths!", Claire then says "I am and I know it's really lame, everybody hates it", Mitchell then says "No. It's just like, uh, Donna Rigby's party." Claire then says "Exactly! Yes! And I have the beads and everything.

"They sit down and start to talk whilst making comb sheaths. Claire then says: "So Cam's a clown.", we then see Phil running around saying "I got you", Mitchell affirms and Claire then says "and there's mine" seeing Phil. Claire then says "You think it's weird that we both chose people who were so-" and is cut off by Mitchell trying to finish her sentence "Uninhibited?", Claire then says "I was gonna say 'embarrassing,' but yeah. Look at them now., they're the life of the party.", Mitchell then says "You know, I gotta say, for all his craziness, I love my clown", Claire then agrees with "me too" and then says "They're good for us. I would've totally tanked this party" Mitchell then says that he would've got his butt kicked at a gas station, Claire then asks for an explanation and he says "Turns out Fizbo is a real bad-ass.", but just as he says this, we hear Fizbo in the background scream "Scorpion! Scorpion! Scorpion!", Fizbo bursts through, knocking down everything that's in his way, as he escapes terrified.

He shouts some more "Scorpion! Scorpion! Scorpion!" Fizbo turning into Cameron then starts to scream at a much higher pitch, Fizbo then runs into Phil, Phil then says "Too close, too close" being afraid of clowns, Phil then backs into Jay and Luke, Luke fires the crossbow by an accident and the crossbow goes into the bouncy castle, says "What the hell! Oh! Crap", Claire and Mitch then rush over to Jay and Luke, Claire tells Luke and Jay to calm down asks what happened and Luke says "We fired the crossbow", Claire tells them "No, I know", and then says "Oh, my God" realizing that the situation is dire, spotting the crossbow Claire tells everyone "It's right there", all of the kids are running about terrified and screaming whilst Claire is trying to let kids out, each kid escapes, Manny then sees this and says "Bianca, I'm coming", Manny gets onto the zipline and rides all the way to the bouncy castle, Manny is then "interviewed", where he says: "It turns out I'm not the sweet guy or the funny guy." and we come back to Manny swinging on the zipline and Gloria shouts to tell Manny not to go into the bouncy castle, Manny then shouts "I must!", and removes his shoes and shouts to Bianca saying "I'm coming!", we go back to Mannys' "interview" where he says "Manny Delgado is a man of action.

"We come back to Manny and he is pulling Bianca out, Bianca then says "Wait, my dog is still in there", Manny says "I'll be right back" and dives into the bouncy castle again to go and get Bianca's balloon dog, he holds it up and gives it to her. We see Claire and Phil run over to an in-pain Luke and Claire asks 'what happened?' Luke explains that he slipped on "these stupid beads", Claire and Phil attempt to pull their son up as Claire says "Oops" realizing that she is the one who left the beads there" after Cam as Fizbo knocked them down.

We then see Gloria arrive at the hospital with Manny, Gloria asks "How is he?", Claire says that he'll be fine, Phil then walks into their room with Luke, who has a cast around his arm, everyone then all talks at once, everyone then goes to crowd around Luke, and Luke says "Wow, everybody's here" Jay then says "Of course we are, how's that busted flipper?" Luke tells them his arm is fine, Phil then says he's sorry about his birthday party this year and that they'll try again next year, Luke then says "Are you kidding? This was the best birthday ever." Claire then asks what he mans by that and Luke explains that he got a cast from being injured and Claire asks "You like the cast?" Luke tells her that he's always wanted one after a few weeks they start to smell, Gloria then says "Eww" and Alex tells Luke "You are so weird, you know that?" Manny then asks Luke if he can sign it to which Luke is much obliged.

Alex grabs the pen and says "Hey, me first" and Manny says OK, we cut to an "interview" with Phil and Claire and Phil says: "If you'd asked me before the party if I wanted there to be a chain reaction of disasters that led to Luke breaking his arm, I probably would've said no." Claire interrupts with "Probably?" Phil then stumbles on correcting himself "Prob- Definite- Definitely not. Would not want that.", "But, one way or another, Luke was the center of attention on his birthday, and the whole family was together, just the way it should be." we see everyone signing Lukes' cast over Phils' voice. We then see Fizbo appear with a cake with candles in it. Fizbo states "Fizbo delivery! I brought the cake!", we see Phil say "I can't do this! I'm out!!" we see him stumble and fall on his way out as he takes in deep breaths, but everyone else cheers "CAKE!".

The ending clips are of Manny's "interview" where he says "Bianca Douglas called me three times tonight. I'm not gonna lie to you. I'm starting to feel smothered.", we then enter Lukes' "interview" where he says "I really like my cast, but it's starting to itch. Good thing my mom made me this personal scratcher. Oh, that's good stuff.", we then enter Haley's "interview" where she says "If another woman is messing with your man, you have to get proactive. I don't care how pretty she is or how many stupid reptiles she has. She tries to take what's mine, girlfriend's gonna get stung." we then see that the scorpion has actually found its way into Haley's bedroom, and we hear her scream after it drops onto the floor.

(The characters striked out do not appear in this episode)

---

## [Run for Your Wife](https://modernfamily.fandom.com/wiki/Run_for_Your_Wife)

It's the first day of school for the families. The episode opens with mass chaos in the Dunphy household. Claire calls up to Alex and Luke as Haley is already downstairs. Luke comes down and says that he needs help, he kept a summer journal that's due today, but only wrote one entry. The entry reads: "June 21st, found a stick". Phil & Claire are the first to be "interviewed" Claire states that the first day of school is tough to get the kids out of the house, Phil and Claire then have a small conflict about when they get up to get the kids to school.

The next scene is at the Pritchett household with Jay & Gloria, Gloria can't believe that Manny is going into 5th grade. Jay calls up to his step son, Jay notices his poncho; Jay and Gloria have a disagreement over Manny's decision to wear a Colombian poncho on his first day of school. Manny wants to show his classmates that he is proud of his Colombian heritage, but Jay thinks he will get beat up because of it. Gloria tells Jay that he is overreacting and consequently undermining Manny's confidence.

The next scene is at the household of Mitchell and Cameron. Mitchell is frantically baby proofing the house so Lily won't get hurt. Mitchell notices that Cameron has Lily dressed up as 'Donna Summer'; Cameron corrects him on who she is saying she's 'Diana Ross' from the RCA years. Mitchell and Cam then get "interviewed" Cam then says that has completed a series of photoshoots of Lily as 'Olivia Newton-John', 'Madonna' and 'Stevie Wonder', Mitch then makes a comment saying 'there are days when Lily has more costume changes than Cher' Cameron then says that he forgot about Lily as Cher and then says 'that's embarrassing' that he forgot, Mitchell then mocks him saying 'that's embarrassing?!'.

[INTRO THEME SONG]

We're back at the Dunphy household, and Alex is the next to come down with all her equipment, Claire notices that Alex is having trouble getting all of her stuff together to take to school and says that she suggest just a violin. Alex explains that a cello is in demand for University Orchestras, and Haley makes a snarky comment on what Alex says. Phil offers to help Alex carry her stuff to which Alex thanks him for. Claire stops him to tell him to put on pants before he helps her and Phil complains that it covers up more than his bathing suit, Claire then says 'don't remind me' under her breath. Claire walks over to Haley to tell her not to forget that her driving instructor is picking her up from school, to which Haley complains that she doesn't want him to in case her friends from school think she is dating a 40 year old man who is 'not even cute'. Phil and Claire get interviewed again, in which Claire says that 'Haley just got her learner's permit' and Phil says that they are taking turns driving with her. We cut to Phil helping Haley drive and then Claire helping Haley drive in which they both say what's she's doing wrong and seem very nervous.

We're back in the Pritchett household, Gloria tells Jay to stop 'undermelting' his confidence, Jay then corrects her to 'undermining' and Gloria exclaims that he is doing the same thing to her by correcting her. Jay apologizes sarcastically and says that ponchos should only be worn at 'Niagara Falls' and log rides. Gloria tells him to stop thinking so much about what'll happen to Manny and he'll be OK, Gloria says she wears daring outfits all the time but people admire them because she wears them with 'the confidence', Jay then mocks her saying that he's 'sure it's the confidence they're admiring!'.

We're back at the household of Mitch and Cam, Mitch says that he thinks that Cam dressing Lily up as various pop stars to do photoshoots with her is a little over the top. Cam tells Mitch to loosen up and have fun, Mitch  argues with his statement saying he is all those things, giving him an example of when he swapped Dinner for Breakfast last week. Cam argues back saying that since Lily has arrived Mitch has been tense making an example of his baby-proofing the house and reading parenting books, Cam then makes Mitch hold Lily,  Cam then puts music on to dance to whilst Mitch says he has to be at work. Cam then tires to make Mitchell dance with him and Lily, Mitch then gets really into it and tosses her up into the air and accidentally hits her head on the ceiling.

We cut to Mitchell putting ice on her head and asks why Cam has chocolate on his face, he then says that the bag of ice was under a (chocolate) pie, Mitch mocks him saying 'you ate your way to it?' Cam then tells Mitchell not to judge him, because he wasn't there. Mitch and Cam then try to make Lily laugh to see if she's okay after it doesn't work; Cam then tells Mitch to call Claire for advice and Mitch says he does not want to because she's going to be judgemental and condescending. Cam says that she's family and she's going to be, Mitch still doesn't want to cal her but then ends up calling Claire anyway. Claire tells Mitchell that Luke hit his head all the time when he was little and tells him to relax, Mitchell knows how Luke turned out and makes Cam who is not on the phone with him believe that she says to immediately decide to take Lily to the doctor; although this is actually his 'worried-parent' choice.

We're back at the Pritchett household, where Jay tells Gloria that they have the day to themselves for the first time in months and says that they should go somewhere, we cut to Jay and Gloria being 'interviewed' again; Gloria says that Jay is spontaneous and likes to surprise her, Jay then says he wasn't the greatest husband the first time and that he has it down now (being married to Gloria) and that he will definitely have it down the third time, Gloria looks at him with a disappointing look on her face as she doesn't find Jay's joke funny, Jay says that the joke will cost him.

We're back at the Dunphy household with Phil and Claire, Phil says that he doesn't have to sell a house this

morning because he re-scheduled to spend more time with his wife. We cut to Phil being interviewed alone, in which he says that, Claire and other women will tell you what they want by telling you the opposite of what they want, and gives example of it saying the other day Claire told him to move his car because there is no way both their cars can fit in the garage and Phil misunderstands her, thinking she's telling him to get a sports car. We cut back to Phil and Claire on the couch in their house, Claire tells Phil that she'd rather spend her day alone and says that she's going running alone later, Phil uses his method he mentioned earlier, and says that they'll run together, Claire tells him that he doesn't have to, trying to tell him not to come and he says 'I know' thinking she's saying 'I want you to come', we cut back to a short interview where Phil just says 'listening', Claire then tries to brush him

off again, but offends him by saying that she runs too fast for him Phil, being hurt by her statement asks her 'you don't think I can keep up with you?' Claire responds back saying 'I don't think you can keep up with this conversation' hinting that he's really misunderstanding the fact that she wants to spend her day alone. Phil then says that he 'power walks' in shoes designed by a doctor, Claire says she knows this but she runs whilst he walks, Phil then realizes that he needs to compete with her to prove that he can run at the same speed/faster than her. Phil walks away upset and Claire, knowing she's offended him, bites her nail. Claire then gets 'interviewed' alone and says that she just wanted to read alone.

We're back with Jay and Gloria walking outside to get into their car, Gloria finds Manny's poncho and asks what it is, Jay then lies about it but Gloria already knows it's her sons' poncho, Jay lies again saying that Manny might have decided to take it off and just go to school, but knowing their earlier conflict Gloria tells Jay that Manny looks up to his stepfather (Jay) and respects his opinion, and that he shouldn't knock his confidence about what he does. Jay says that 'we dodged a bullet on this' Jay then compares his stepson, Manny, to his son, Mitchell.

Mitchell then gets "interviewed", in which he says that Jay has a perception that he was flamboyant as a kid but he dismisses his Dads' perception saying that he kept himself being gay under wraps; being a guys' guy and a jock (as he says this, pictures come up of him as a kid showing the way he dressed back then).

We go back to Gloria and Jay, Jay tells Gloria that if Manny gets bullied because he's wearing a poncho it would rip Glorias' heart out, Gloria tells Jay that "Batman doesn't get picked on and he wears a cape, a poncho is just a cape that goes all the way 'round" Jay tells Gloria she shouldn't compare Batman to her son, saying they're different because Batman is a "muscular genius" and Manny can't do what Batman does. Gloria refuses and tells Jay that they're going to his school to give it to him, to show some support.

We are back at the Dunphys' household and Phil is still in confilict with Claire about hurting his feelings, Claire doesn't realise that he is still mad at her and is serious about the running competition between them: she tells him that he should let it go, she told him the truth and she ran a marathon last year, but, she sees that Phil is serious about it and decides to finally compete with him.

We are at the doctors office in a hospital with Cam and Mitch and Doctor Miura. Mitch tells Doctor Muira that Lily hit her head a couple of hours ago on a door jam. Cam and Mitch are interviewed and Mitch says that they used to do an Egg Drop competition in school and says it was hard, Cam says they did the same thing but he got through a dozen eggs, Mitch assumes wrong, he thinks that Cam ate them instead of taking care of them, Cam gets what he assumes and corrects him saying he broke a dozen eggs and gets offended after he says this knowing Mitch assumed eating first out of anything, although he is a nervous eater. We are back at with Cam, Mitch, Lily and Miura, Miura states that she can't see a mark, and Cam says that her head was somewhat protected. Miura asks if a hat was protecting her head, Mitch in embarrassment of the truth says she was wearing a hat and Cam sees his embarrassment and states that it was a wig, a 'ghetto fabulous afro thing' Cam sees Mitch's face and says that he thought it might be medically relevant, Mitch mocks him asking if 'ghetto fabulous' was medically relevant. Miura sees the awkward tension and asks to finish the exam on Lily, Cam states that he and Mitch intend on raising Lily within her asian heritage, Miura states that it is fantastic in way that also says that she doesn't know why she needs to know that information. Mitch gives Cam a 'why did you say that' look for a long time. Cam still gets deep into the information he gave her earlier ,although, both Miura and Mitch have put it off, and says that there is an Asian restaurant they'll take her to when she's ready for solid food.

When saying the restaurant name Cam asks if he's saying it right, thinking that she is the same heritage as Lily, she then picks up on what he's thinking and brushes it off; she is not. Miura then escapes the awkward moment, by asking Mitch to show her how hard Lily was hit by using his head. Mitch demonstrates awkwardly leaving room for humor from the audience when Dr. Miura asks him to repeat his demonstration. Miura asks Mitch how he is feeling once he finishes to which he says, 'fine', she then says however Mitch feels after hitting his head, Lily will feel the same way. Dr. Miura says that babies are designed to survive new parents and tells them to relax. Cam then tells her 'thank you' as she walks out of the room, Miura looks back at Cam and tells him 'Denver' as she told him when he asked how to pronounce the restaurant name, hinting she isn't of Lilys' culture.

We are at Walgrove Elementary School with Jay and Gloria who want to give Manny back his poncho, Jay makes a comment: "I don't see any poncho's which means either kids aren't wearing them or the ones who do wear them disappear". Jay and Gloria are "interviewed" (at home), where Gloria says she supports Manny no matter what and that your kids need support no matter what they think, Jay then says that supporting them no matter what doesn't always end well, giving an example of how a friend of his died believing he could fly (out of windows). We cut back to Jay and Gloria talking to Manny, he asks who has died and Gloria tells him nothing bad has happened, but Jay jumps in asking why he would think that, so Gloria tells him that in Columbia, if you were pulled out of class it was to identify a body, Jay gives back his poncho and Manny says in front of his Mom what Jay said: "I thought you said it made me look like my neck was wearing a dress" to which Gloria gives him a look, Jay then says it was a joke, (although when he said it it wasn't). Manny pulls out his pan-flute and tells them he will play Columbian music, in an interview with Jay and Gloria, Gloria states that the poncho was fine, but the poncho plus the flute, plus the ('stupid') dance will make her 'son die a virgin' and Jay agrees. Before they go into the interview Gloria asks Jay to destroy his flute, which after the interview he does.

We are with Mitch and Cam at a parking lot outside the hospital, Mitch goes to open the door but is worried he'll bump her head again on the door or hurt her with the seatbelt, Cam tells him to stop beating himself up over one mistake, Mitch tells Cam he thinks that he sucks at being a Dad, Cam tells him not to worry and they're both new at parenting, However Mitch tells him that even though they're now, Cam is the natural and he's just the one who is jealous of Cams' parenting skills. Cam then lists things that Mitch can do parenting wise that he can't to make him feel better. Cam tells Mitch they are a great team because what Cam is bad at Mitch is good at and what Mitch is good Cam is bad at, they have their own strengths with parenting; they then have a moment where Cam cheers Mitch on but it unfortunately ends when Cam realizes that Mitch has accidentally locked Lily in the car, with the keys. Mitch tells Cam not to freak out and Cam tells Lily the same thing, Mitch begins singing the alphabet to her to help her calm down and Cam can't resist freaking out.

We are back with Phil and Claire, who are stretching just before they both compete to run faster, Alex and Luke arrive out of a black car and Phil asks how their day went. The kids reply with fine but then ask them what they are doing, Phil says that they are racing each other, the kids ask why, Claire says she doesn't know why, Phil says she does know. Phil asks if Luke is up for games when they finish running, but Luke declines; he has to write in his journal, he moves on to ask Alex if she wants to do something, she also declines saying she has a history paper. After a little moment Phil has about the kids declining, Phil and Claire then have a moment shortly before Claire stops it from going any further by saying 'go' startling Phil into running.

We're back with Mitch and Cam, with them still freaking out, Mitch is on the phone to ONSTAR: Emergency Assistance while Cam is in the background holding up a bin to smash into the car window with, he then drops it but gets up and carries on running towards the car to break the window. Emergency Assistance tells Mitch to tell his wife to relax, as Cam sounds like a woman as he panics shouting in the street, Emergency Assistance tells them to open the car door, at first it's not unlocked and then it is. Cam asks how they did it and asks 'did that come from space?'.

We are back with the Dunphys' house featuring Claire and Phil, who are running, there is a voice over of Claire in her interview in which she says that there is no way she's going to lose a 2 mile race to her husband, she compares Phil to what he runs with: a Johnny Ski Pole. Phil says that he's saving his energy because he's running so slow, Phil aks Claire if she's feeling cocky to which she replies yes, he then takes off his shirt he's sweating through. Claire sees the t-shirt and in an interview she says that she has just realized that the first day in school for their kids was tougher for Phil more than anyone. Claire then lets Phil win (as she says in an interview) as she feels sorry for him, Phil gets cocky about winning, and accidentally gets knocked over by hid daughters driving eds' car, with her driving, Phil brushes it off and tells her she's getting better. Claire's voiceover says "We do strange things for the people we love. We lie to them; we lie for them. There may be some bumps along the way, but we never stop wanting the best for them. That's what makes it such a tough job, but kind of the best job in the world." whilst they show clips of everyone in their family with their children and having a tough time. Later we see Haley driving Phil (in the backseat), Claire (in the passenger seat) and her siblings in the middle seats of the car whilst still learning from all of them.

There's a short ending scene with all the credits where, cops start to follow Haley and Claire tells Haley to pull over, Haley says she doesn't like cops and just keeps driving, leaving Claire to panic when Phil tells Haley to not pull over and keep driving, he says it's because he never paid the parking ticket from the mall.

---

## [Undeck the Halls](https://modernfamily.fandom.com/wiki/Undeck_the_Halls)

The Dunphys are gathered for their Christmas message to Phil's parents, complete with ugly Christmas sweaters. Unfortunately, Phil and Claire discover a burn mark on the couch from a cigarette. They confront the kids, while Frank is still on video with them. Phil decides to channel his inner disciplinarian and threatens to cancel Christmas if none of the kids 'fesses up to the crime. But according to Claire, Phil has great pronouncements, but not-so-great follow-through. Putting Luke's dirty dishes in his bed didn't work so well, for example. Still, he drags the tree right out of the living room, ornaments and all.

Mitchell and Cameron take Lily to her first Christmas photo. Mitchell isn't happy with the non-fat-looking Santa they waited in a long line for, and Cameron has to deal with the caroling group in the mall he used to be part of before they kicked him out. Unfortunately, Mitchell's complaints about the thin Santa get him fired. They felt so bad about the fired Santa (who lives in his car since his wife left) they invite him over to their house for Christmas. After stepping on eggshells around the boozing ex-Marine, Scott, whose clothes might come out of the dryer a bit pilly because of a dirty lint trap, Cameron's ex-carolers decide to sing in front of their house. Cameron is ready to go ballistic, but Scott preaches forgiveness (even mentioning that he forgave them for getting him fired). Cameron goes out and tries to be the better man. However, even his apology is off-key, according to Andrew who staged the caroling coup. Scott then punches him and tells Mitch and Cam they were nice, while Andrew was naughty.

After pulling a practical joke on Jay, which is a Colombian tradition at Christmas, Jay isn't much for having Gloria and Manny doing any more Colombian Christmas traditions at the house, and neither is happy about it. No fireworks, no having the Baby Jesus deliver the presents...

Haley, Alex, and Luke strategize for getting Christmas back. Alex suggests they pull a "Spartacus": Luke will confess he did it first, then Haley and Alex will do the same thing, with the hope of making Phil and Claire feel guilty for doing it. As it happens, they already feel guilty. Of course, never trust the two older sisters. Luke confesses, and Haley and Alex don't back him up and act like they're shocked. The problem remains unresolved until Alex decides to take the bullet and confesses. Alex is grounded from December 26th and throughout New Years. Christmas is back on, but it turns out the burn mark in the couch was caused by the crystal ornament Frank sent projecting the sun into that small spot. Phil begs forgiveness from the kids, and ends up making another great pronouncement by promising to take them to Italy.

After dropping off some Christmas presents, Jay decides to be flexible and buy some fireworks for Manny, since he wants Manny to have some of his own Christmas traditions with him and Gloria. That is, once Jay gets off one last practical joke of his own, along with Manny.

---

## [My Funky Valentine](https://modernfamily.fandom.com/wiki/My_Funky_Valentine)

It's never good when your daughter's boyfriend upstages you in the romance department. Phil, who is consistent if nothing else, had planned to take Claire to Fratelli's for Valentine's Day, just like he had for the last 17 years. But when Dylan converted a picture of him and Haley into a painting, he decided to up the ante by asking Claire if she wanted to stay at a hotel. She agreed, and she even wants him to do some role play. Perhaps his English polo player or Hong Kong businessman personae should stay home.

Gloria wants to go Salsa dancing but is disappointed when she hears Jay wants to take her to see David Brenner instead.

Mitchell and Cameron are trying to prepare for Valentine's Day as well. At least Lily was dressed up, as she is for all holidays. But Mitch is too stressed out from a case that he had to settle in the court. He had his big closing argument ready, but his client gave in before he could deliver it. Manny comes over and tells the guys that he had made a card for a girl in his school who loved it, except that some other kid took the credit for it. To cheer him (and Mitchell) up, Cameron decides to take both of them to the ice cream parlor and get Manny's girl back for him.

While David Brenner puts on a show that gets Gloria laughing, Phil (or should we say, Clive Bixby) is trying to pick up Claire (Julianna) in the bar.

Clive is very smooth, even in how he smokes. Except there was no smoking allowed in the bar, and Phil immediately drops out of character. And into a hole. He describes his "wife" as always being tired and giving him lists of things to do. Needless to say, Julianna did not like that one. Phil tries to apologize, saying he didn't mean it.

Gloria is glad to have gone to see David Brenner...until David spots her with Jay in the audience.

DAVID BRENNER: So glad to see you brought your father with you. Wow, it must have been something to be there when they actually wrote the Bible. What was it called then? Just "the Testament?"

Jay is no longer enjoying the show. A half-dozen old guy jokes later, and he's running for the hills.

At the Great Shakes ice cream parlor, Cameron helps Manny by getting Fiona's date away from the table by giving Durkas a fake survey. Manny is able to tell Fiona he really wrote the poem, but Durkas, her date, comes back and shoves Manny away. Suddenly, the closing argument Mitchell couldn't say earlier in the day comes in handy. He shames Durkas into admitting it, who also tells Fiona that he had those feelings but didn't know how to express them. She thinks it's sweet, and Manny and Mitch thinks she's a loon.

Clive and Julianna are heading to the hotel room after Julianna decides to wear only a raincoat and a smile. Unfortunately, it isn't her smile that gets caught in the escalator on the way up. One of Phil's partners at the firm has to insist on trying to get the coat unstuck, not knowing what Claire isn't wearing underneath, and the principal of their kids' school decides to have an impromptu teacher's conference with them. And then Jay and Gloria decide they have to walk by. Fortunately for all involved, Gloria, who was thrilled when Jay decided to ditch Brenner and take her salsa dancing, has had her coat stuck in escalators before and knew how to fix it. Now if only Gloria could fix Phil's mouth before talking dirty to Claire in the car...when she has him on speakerphone with the kids.

---

## [En Garde](https://modernfamily.fandom.com/wiki/En_Garde)

We open with Manny at his fencing competition, we see that Gloria and Jay are there in support, we also see that Claire, Phil, Haley, Alex and Luke are there in support (well, Haley would rather be anywhere else), as well as Mitch, Lily and Cam; who is recording the whole thing. Jay and Gloria are the first to be "interviewed" where he says when he heard Manny wanted to fence, he was like sure: uncoordinated kid; lethal weapon, how can this go wrong? We come back to Manny who beats his opponent. Phil and Jay high five each other when this happens.

We go back to Gloria and Jay's "interview" where Gloria asks Jay what he thinks about it now to which Jay says: "I'm proud of our little Zorro" Jay says that he worked with him a little but Manny does have the skills to fence, Gloria says that it is in Manny's blood making an example of his father: "His father was a master swordsman, he was an artist with his sword, I mean the way he throws the sword was

Gloria and Jay celebrate Manny winning.

legendary." Jay tells Gloria that the moment he was having with Manny was literally just ruined by Gloria talking about his fathers' 'sword' to which Gloria apologises. We come back to Manny's fencing competition where Manny is still competing. Alex tells Haley that fencing does back to the 12th century and Haley replies with: "Do you know what’s even nerdier than fencing? Knowing when it began." Luke tells Alex that he doesn't think she is a nerd taking this as an offense as she considers herself a nerd because she's the smart one, in the Dunphy family. We then see Jay shout "Alright, that's my boy" And Mitch gives him a weird look. Mitchell, getting annoyed by Cams' camera being in the way of his face, asks Cameron if things would be easier if they suspended him from a crane.

Mitchell and Cameron are next to be "interviewed" as Cam explains that, "Any monkey can shoot a home movie, I pride myself on shooting home films." Mitchell jumps in with "But, Cameron you always just take things a little too far" Cameron defends himself telling Mitch that he doesn't. Mitchell gives Cam an example of Lukes' first birthday: "You brought a wind machine", Cameron interrupts him saying "To be fair, my vision was-" and gets cut off by Mitchell who again says: "You brough a wind machine!" and Cam protests with, "Who puts wheels on cribs?!" We come back to Manny's fencing competition, and Manny wins the round once again.

Gloria then hugs Claire out of absolute joy and excitement, she then realizes that it was unexpected and joyfully apologizes, and Phil tells Gloria "That's okay". Haley exclaims that her phone has died and Alex manipulates Haley into thinking that her phone battery can charge if she rubs it against her hair, which she then unrighteously smiles at. Jay then tells Phil while playfully hitting and grabbing him that he used to go to friends' houses and see their kids trophies and it used to bug him because there was never a trophy in his house, Jay then hugs Gloria and says "not until this one" and playfully hits Phil again.

It's evident that Phil actually finds Jays' playfull grabbing and hitting really really painful, but he laughs each one off, but tells Phil "That's a good grip" on the last one, while Mitchell awkwardly watches what Jay is doing to his brother-in-law. Phil then whispers to Claire: "Can we switch seats?". Mitchell tells Cameron that people are staring at him being the only Uncle there who is recording everything in a 'being-difficult' way and Jay tells Phil that he knows he's not supposed to care but "it's kind of cool to have a kid in your house who's the best at something." and Jay asks Phil if he knows what he means.

Claire and Phil are next to be "interviewed" as they say that their kids are great but they are 'great' at anything or they don't exceed at anything with skills: Alex is great at every single thing she tries, so she'll find her specialty, and "Haley is- Haley is so pretty. Gorgeous, gorgeous girl. So she can meet someone who's the best at something." and Luke "We dropped the ball a little bit on that one."

[INTRO THEME SONG]

We are back with Manny and his fencing competition, where Manny is just announced the winner of the rounds, Gloria exclaims her excitement in Spanish to Manny and not understanding her, Jay says "What she said". Claire realizes and tells Mitchell that Jay seems happier than Manny at Manny winning the competition and Mitchell sarcastically complains that it's Jay's "chance to be the father of a champion; we all know how the first time went", and then corrects himself to "second chance". Which evidently makes Claire asks if she said something wrong, and Mitchell tells her "No, no. I'm very happy for Manny." but then Claire hears him say "Everything's always about Claire" under his breath and we see Claire make a face on camera behind Mitchells' back. Jay then thanks everyone for coming to support Manny once again, slapping Phil over the back, hurting Phil badly to which Phil exclaims "Why!, Claire?!" Claire then takes Phil and their kids away. Cameron, whilst still recording everything follows Mitchell out of the place, and Mitchell exclaims "Really!?".

Mitchell explains the story: Mitchell and Claire: Ice Skaters.

We are now at the household of Cam and Mitch, Mitchell tells Cameron that it seemed to have taken a while to get Lily to sleep, Cam then tells Mitch, "She's been asleep for 20 minutes. It just took me some time to sneak out without waking her up." Mitchell then makes a remark comparing Lily to Cam. Cam, over hearing Mitchells problem with Claire, wants to talk about the problem: "Let's talk about why you got your panties in a bunch."

Mitchell dismisses this claim but Cameron is already caught up and knows the reason "Or could this have something to do with ice skating?". Cam and Mitch are next to be "interviewed", where Cameron ries to tell the story of Claire and Mitchell: Ice Skating but is interrupted by Mitchell: "This is interesting to no one.", Cameron then carries on but is again interrupted by Mitchell "Oh, for God's sakes, I'll tell the story." after having to correct Cam twice. Mitchell says "Yes, my sister and I were actually a very good team. We were called 'Fire and Nice' I was Fire, because of the red hair, and Claire was Nice, because it was ironic and she wasn't." Cam explains that Mitchell is still upset because Claire quit the team and right before a meet. Mitch then explains the 'meet': "The 13-and-under regional championships.

Just the Emerald City at the end of my yellow brick road." Cameron then follow with "Wow! You did it" when Mitchell asks what he did Cameron tells him: "You made figure skating sound even gayer." We come back to Mitch and Cam on their sofa and Cam asks Mitchell: "So, seeing your dad so proud of Manny didn't stir up any resentment?" Mitchell dismisses this and Cam sees right through and tells him that he always hides his emotions but then everything comes out and someone will/people get hurt. When Cam says it, he realizes and admits that he might be holding a little resentment but it's petty and isn't a good color on him. Cam then tells Mitchell, that (Mitchell) he loves his yellow shirt. Mitchell then tells Cam it makes him look like the sun to which Cameron replies with: "Bubbling, hurtful bubbling. Now you know why I left early that morning."

Phil searches for what Luke is good at.

We are at the Dunphys' household, Haley tells Claire that there is something wrong with her phone as she's rubbed it on her hair for an hour; still believing that it can charge by static electricity: being rubbed against someones' hair, Claire, knowing her kids, realizes that Alex must have told her, and tells Alex off, Haley then realizes, and gets into a fight with Alex, Alex and Haley run off and Claire tells Alex to stop being mean and tells Haley to stop making herself a target. Phil and Luke come down the stairs and Phil tells Claire that he may have found something that Luke can excel at. Claire is "interviewed" where she says: "of course I want Luke to be successful. But I don't think that a parent can just force that. I think you just have to have faith that the kid's gonna find his own way. Besides, Luke already is the best at something: being my son.

That sounded a lot less lame in my head." We are outside with Luke and Phil, who says he's got a good feeling about Luke being good at baseball, Luke and Phil get ready to start baseball and Luke throws the ball but not at Phil; he misses the shot, we then see Luke try again but miss 7 other shots over and over again, it seems that Luke doesn't have any throwing skills.

Jay shows Gloria the shirt he made for the family to support Manny

We are at the house of Gloria, Jay and Manny, we hear Gloria on the phone to her grandmother in Spanish: "¡Ay, abuela, es que lo que yo te diga es poco! Esto hubiera sido la locura en Barranquilla. No, es que tú no sabes. ¡Mejor que su padre! Bueno, hasta luego, porque aquí ya llegó Jay. Adiós" When Jay asks if everything is okay, Gloria says that she was telling her grandmother how great Manny was in fencing and Jay mistakes her for shouting down the phone angrily, Gloria corrects him to happy talk.

Jay then tells Gloria that he now understands why there is so much conflict on her continent, Jay then shows Gloria a 'Who Da Manny?' shirt. In an "interview" with Jay and Gloria we see that Jay has made more t-shirts in the past: a t-shirt when Haley ran a 5k race in elementary school. Back with Gloria and Jay, Gloria tells Jay that she is happy to see Jay proud of Manny and gives him a "Gracias, mi amor" (Thanks, my love.). Manny then enters the room and tells Gloria and Jay that he is quitting fencing because he doesn't want to compete against a girl as he doesn't believe in hitting girls. Gloria then tells him that if Manny doesn't compete he is basically disrespecting women just because he doesn't want to compete against a girl; Manny doesn't think a girl can take a hit. When Gloria convinces Manny to resume the competition, Manny takes back his fencing equipment and Gloria and Jay cheer Manny on.

Luke unknowingly helps Phil sell the house.

We are now at the Dunphys' with Phil, who says that being a great salesman means following the ABC's of salesmanship: "Always Be Closing, Don't Ever Forget, Great Home Ideas Just Keep Lurking, Mostly Nearby. Often People Question Realtors' Sincerity, Take Umbrage, Violators Will"- and then he forgets the rest. We are now with Phil showing people around a house. We come back to Phils' "Interview": "Did I need the sale? Yes. Was I worried? No. Why? Because. Because why? Because I won't sell anything I don't believe in. And when I believe, you believe. I could sell a fur coat to an Eskimo." We come back to Phil showing people around the house, they say that they aren't certain that they wanna buy the house and Luke comes in and unknowingly convinces them to buy the house, Phil then realizes that the thing that Luke might be best at is the thing he does: Selling. We then see Phil and Luke come home with Phil very happy, we also see Claire wearing the shirt that Jay showed to us earlier: "'Who Da Manny?'". Phil tells Claire that Luke is very good at selling and Claire approves. Luke comes downstairs and has his phone in his mouth when Claire asks why he says he's charging it, Claire then knows Alex has been at it again.

Cam tells Claire that Mitch is stilll upset.

We come back to, Claire, Haley, Alex, Luke, Phil, Mitch and Cam, who are outside the Fencing Competition building, Cam asks Mitch to clear the air with Claire, but Mitch doesn't want to as he says that there isn't a part of me him that needs or wants to. Cameron tells Mitchell that when he doesn't share his feeling, people get hurt, when Claire says hi to them and presents food in a bag, Cameron says that he can't do it and tells Claire that Mitch is upset with her about the Ice Skating story. Which forces Mitchell and Claire to sort it out: Mitchell tells Claire that she shouldn't have quit; it was selfish. Claire tells Mitchell she quit to protcect him , she was bigger than him and he had dropped her before; she didn't want him to humiliate himself because he wouldn't be able to lift her. Mitchell tells her that he only dropped her twice and corrects himself to three times. Claire tells him that he dropped her all the time. Claire asks for forgiveness and Mitchell fakes forgiving her, they then hug and Mitchell tries to lift her; which tells Claire he hasn't forgiven her.

Jay and Gloria feel guilty now knowing about Caroline.

We are now at the fencing competition; inside the building, Jay and Gloria tell Manny to stay focused and concentrated, they then build his confidence up. When Manny walks away, we see Caroline (Manny's competitor) and her nurse (from a childrens' hospital) come up to Jay and Gloria, they soon realise that they feel sorry for Caroline and Caroline is an orphan. Which gives them awkward air after Gloria tells Manny to beat Caroline when he gives in.

Luke slips down the stairs

We come back to Phil and Luke, things turn sour when Luke is playing with the child of the buyers: Luke slips down the stairs, Luke tells the buyers that the floors are slippery; they're like ice, and then says he saw a ghost which then convinces them not to buy the house again. Phl then walks up the stairs and slips, he then tries to save himself by saying that he slipped and the stairs did nothing, although it really doesn't help.

Jay and Gloria feel guilty when they see Carolines' cheer squad.

Jay and Gloria try to tell Manny to stop.

We come back to Jay and Gloria with Carolines' nurse, who then makes it worse for Gloria and Jay to cheer Manny on or be proud of him, Carolines' nurse tells Jay and Gloria: "I only wish her father had made it back from Afghanistan to see this." and then makes it a little more worse for them when Carolines' cheer squad arrive and Alex, Haley, Jay and Gloria watch as they realize it's all kids from the children's hospital. Gloria tells Jay that they have to stop him from competing. Jay and Gloria then try to tell Manny to stop. But Manny sees (upper left) as a sign to kill her instead. Jay resorts to asking if he should pull the fire alarm to stop Manny from beaing Caroline.

Mitchell and Claire comfort each other.

We come back to Claire and Mitchell, who are in the process of making up. Mitchell tells Claire that he is glad Jay is proud of Manny but it would have been nice to see him proud of them he corrects himself from 'proud of us' to 'proud of me' as he received a little less love than Claire. Claire asks Mitchell if he thought that "the path to Dad's approval was going to be through figure skating?", "Mitchell, I am fairly confident that Dad's proudest moment was when you finally took off the flame-red unitard". Mitchell then tells Claire that he isn't saying any of his thoughts were rational. He then apologizes to Claire for being upset at her for all this time because Claire quit.

Mitchell and Claire assume the position of their old ice skating routine.

Mitchell then tells Claire that he didn't like skating but when he and her skated together she wasn't the mean older sister, "...and I wasn't the clingy little brother. We were a team, and let's face it, we've kind of grown apart in the past few years...we were on opposing sides. And I just miss being on your team." Claire realizes how he feels and gets up to get into the position of their ice skating routine, Mitchell then joins her.

We come back to Manny's fencing competition, where Manny is beating Caroline every round. Carolines' cheer squad watch the match as Manny keeps beating Caroline. Jay and Gloria are now, instead of being proud and cheering him on, feeling guilty as they realise that Caroline probably should have won the match instead. Things just get worse when everyone sees Manny beat Caroline. Cameron who is in the building is recording everything and when he tries to get a better shot of the match by putting it near Jay's face, Jay tells him to put the camera away or he'll destroy it, to which Cam immediately turns it off and sits back down. We see Jay look discouraged and tell Gloria that somebody needs to put a stop to it. Now the entire audience watching the Match feels bad for Caroline even if they don't know what Jay and Gloria do.

Claire and Mitchell, performing their ice skating routine.

We are back with Mitchell and Claire, for a short while, who are performing their routine. We then come back to Manny and Caroline who have just finished their competition where, of course, Manny is the winner, Gloria asks to take Caroline and her nurse out for ice cream, to which the nurse tells her that Caroline is diabetic and Jay sarcastically says "of course she is!". The family then get ready to leave with Manny and walk outside, Jay tells Gloria "I can't decide if I'm feeling more proud or mortified.". Gloria asks "How about now" when she sees Mitchell and Claire dancing together. Cameron then resumes recording and focuses the camera on Mitchell and Claires' dancing.

Jay poses with Mannys' award.

We hear Jays' voice over Claire and Mitchells' dancing. We then see that Cam posted the video on a social media website, which Cam, Haley, Alex, Mitchell and Cam are watching. We then see Phil and Luke in the backyard of their house, we see Luke give baseball another try and this time when he throws, it's perfect and Phil catches it, which Phil and Luke celebrate. We then see Jay with Manny's award and he smiles as Jay's voice over says "Guilt fades...hardware lasts forever." The camera then closes in on Claire and Mitchells' photograph of when they were teenagers and posing as ice skaters.

SPEECH:

JAY: "We tell our kids it doesn't matter if they win or lose. But let's be honest. Winning feels pretty great. There's nothing like that golden moment in the sun. I think every parent wants that for their child. I think for ourselves, too. Sometimes we push too hard, and that leads to a lot of resentment and guilt. So how much is too much? Here's how I come out. Guilt fades...hardware lasts forever."

Cam now wants to be lifted up by Mitchell.

There is an ending clip of Cam and Mitch walking and Mitch asks Cam if he is mad that he didn't get to dance with him to which Cam does the same thing as Mitch: he covers up his feelings. Although Mitchell can see right through it and tells Cameron that he'll dance with him. So Mitchell dances and Cam lifts Mitchell up although Mitchell then asks if Cam is serious when he says he wants to be lifted up.

(The characters striked out do not appear in this episode)

---

## [The Incident](https://modernfamily.fandom.com/wiki/The_Incident)

We open with the Pritchett household, seeing Jay eat something unhealthy, when Gloria walks through the door. She announces she's home and Jay, unbeknown to Gloria, puts his snack down and picks up an apple. Manny is at a sleep over party. Gloria says she's worried about Manny and Jay reassures her. Gloria invites Jay to join her in the shower, to which Jay reminds Gloria that there is a gun in the garage and if he ever says no to that question, she should shoot him with it.

We are next at the Dunphy household, where things are bit strange as Claire is watching in disbelief at Luke and Haley who are playing but not arguing. Phil walks in and asks why they aren't trying to hurt each other. Claire says she doesn't know but she is afraid to move in case it stops. Phil also in disbelief asks Claire what's happening.

We are now at the household of Cam and Mitch, where Mitch's mother, DeDe, has arrived as a surprise. We go back to the Pritchett house, where a bird slams into the window and Gloria states that it's a bad sign. Back at the Dunphys' house, Luke and Haley stop playing and start to hurt each other. Claire asks what happened and Phil states that he is sad. Back at Cam and Mitchs', Mitch warns Cam that DeDe is here. Cam insults DeDe thinking that Mitch is joking, before then stopping when he sees her in the room, and exclaims 'Grandma!' acting happy.

[INTRO THEME SONG]

We come back to where things left off with DeDe playing with Lily's legs, Mitch asks what she's doing, and DeDe says she's doing Tai Chi and says that Cam should try it, by which he gets offended. Mitch and Cam are first to be "interviewed", in which Cam says that Mitchell's Mom has a problem with him. Last Christmas, she gave him a piece of exercise equipment with a lettuce dryer, whilst Cam gave her diamond earrings Cam then simplifies it saying that he gave her gorgeous earrings and she gave him a hint. We go back to DeDe, Cam and Mitch. DeDe tells Mitch that she's been living in spirituality, by living in Sedona; Arizona, America and learning about it. DeDe says that she is back to make peace with the family and move on from the "incident":

INCIDENT: In a videotape of Gloria and Jay's wedding DeDe is there to support them, but insults Gloria a few times because of jealousy. However it becomes more than that as DeDe started drinking cocktails: "Horny Columbians" through the night as she was there. We cut to Claire in an interview as she said that the drinks are named after Glorias' uncles who were inappropriate with Claire, although Phil has brushed this off and believed that it was a columbian tradition. We cut back to Gloria and Jay's wedding, where DeDe makes a toast to Gloria and Jay, she insults Gloria by saying that she is Charo (see Cultural Refrences for link). Dede then insults Jay and Gloria both again by saying that she knew they were

perfect together when she saw his wallet and her boobs. After this she insults both Mitch and Claire by asking Mitch if he took a 'Claire-pill' when he tells her to calm down and stop. In the video Phil has to stop Claire from trying to get up. DeDe then gets aggressive and weird, when Phil, Mitch and Cam had to carry her out, while she was screaming "I'm Gloria!, I'm Gloria! Oh hey, kiss me, hey, kiss me" in Gloria's accent, DeDe then makes Phil, Mitch and Cam accidentally destroy the wedding cake when she starts to kick around, however Phil, Mitch and Cam then manage to get her out of the room, but she is still screaming and imitating Gloria's accent.

Gloria and Jay are then "interviewed" where Jay makes a joke saying he drives women crazy, when Gloria doesn't laugh he realizes that it was too soon.

We are back with the Dunphys', where Claire won't let Haley go to a concert, that she feels is unsupervised although there is going to be an adult there, however she doesn't want her going with her new boyfriend Dylan and other boys, whom she would be spending the night with. Even though Haley says its supervised by a friends, Spencer Patines' Uncle Toby, Phil tries to help by saying that Claire is worried about whether or not Dylan is going to college, Claire tries to tell Phil that she isn't worried about that, but overhears Haley tell her Dad, Dylan isn't going to college which shocks her way more. Haley tells her that Dylan is in a band and they're going on tour, but, Claire doesn't like where it's going further; Haley storms off in a rage. Phil tells everyone to call down; subsequently calling back Haley and getting Claire's attention, when he says 'Let's start from the beginning, what's wrong with Spencers' arm?' Haley continues to storm off in a rage. While Claire just gives Phil a look.

We are with Gloria, Phil and Manny, Manny arrives home after the sleepover and Gloria sees that there is something on his face, Manny just thinks it's a smile, whilst Gloria takes him to the mirror to make him see that there is something on his face, he gives out a disappointing 'ohh'. He then explains: 'That's why they were laughing, I thought it was my funny take on current events', Gloria then asks Jay why they would do this, Jay says it's banter and that Manny should get them back, Gloria asks what Manny thinks and he it seems that he agrees with the concept.

We are back at the house of Cam and Mitch, with DeDe telling Mitch that she needs closure and needs to have everyone forgive her from the incident. She also says that she met a man and is going to move in with him in Canada, Mitch says that it's wonderful that she is with someone and wants to have a settled relationship, DeDe says that it is and she wants to have everyone forgive her so that she can move on otherwise she will be dragging around the guilt of insulting her family at the wedding. Mitch thinks that she should just repress it and move on 'like a normal family' although she says that she can't. She says that she met a man but can't give herself to him (sexually) and then makes another sexual comment, she says that she needs Mitchell's help. Which confuses both Cam and Mitch, Cam makes a comment as he get's up to leave the room: "D'you hear that Mitchell? Your Mom needs your help to make love to her new man, Chase; that's not weird, at all." when Cam walks out the room, Mitch asks DeDe

what she is asking him to do, she tells him that she would like his help at helping her heal her family and make them forgive her. Mitchell invites DeDe to dinner with the entire family the same night (Sunday) without them knowing. Cam in the kitchen watching them hug, gets "interviewed" in which he says that "There's a fish in nature that swims around with its babies in its mouth, that fish would look at Mitchell's relationship with his mother and say, "that's messed up."" (see Cultural Refrences for link)

We are back at the Dunphys' household, where Phil and Haley start to talk, Phil is "interviewed": "Act like a parent, talk like a peer; I call it 'peerenting.' I learned it from my own dad who used to walk into my room and say, "what's up, sweathog?"" Haley and Phil are talking and Phil says he would love to say yes to the concert. Haley says her Claire just doesn't trust her, Phil says that she does but boys get 'urges', Haley stops him asking if there's something he wants, Phil tells her to pretend he is 'Marcus from biology' asking the question: "Hey, Haley, how's it going with you and Dylan; has he tried anything inappropriate with you?". We're now downstairs as Claire gets the door, Mitchell is at the door, and has brought over their mother to Claire's disappointment: "Oh, God!" DeDe then insults her hair thinking it's constructive critisism for Claire. Mitchell explains the first half of why DeDe is here. Claire then says "How very nice of her to say that; through you." DeDe then says that her sarcasm hurts; like a whip. Claire is then "interviewed" where she says that her Mom was the voice in every kids head that says they're not good enough, except the voice was outside her head; driving her to school.

After Claire's "interview" we come back to Claire, Mitch and DeDe, where Mitch explains the second half of

why DeDe is here, and asks Claire if DeDe could join Sunday dinner, DeDe gets dramatic with the line 'it may be the last time you ever see me' Claire, worried and surprised, asks what she's talking about, DeDe says she's moving to a far and dangerous place, while Mitchell tells Claire that it's just Canada, DeDe once again says something sexually inappropriate again this time infront of Claire and Mitchell. Claire and Mitchell both make cringey 'oohh' noises over the awkward situation. Haley comes down without Phil, to say hi to her Grandmother, DeDe tells Haley that she is all grown up,

Haley tells DeDe that Claire doesn't think so as she won't let her go to a concert, Claire tells DeDe that it's overnight with her boyfriend which DeDe laughs at and explains her laugh by saying that 'karma's a funny thing; that's all' she then asks Claire if she remembers Ricky, Claire's ex-boyfriend, Claire responds with 'Oh, God!', Haley needing to ask and provoke her Mom asks who Ricky was, Claire brushes it off, but, of course, DeDe is going to answer it, DeDe tells Haley that Ricky was a boy who looked like Charles Manson (see Cultural Refrences for link). DeDe then tells Haley that one night Claire didn't come home until 4am, Haley asks Claire what they were doing, Claire responds with nothing and they have an argument about how Ricky and Dylan are the same, consequently leading to Claire inviting Dylan around for dinner and considering letting her go to the concert if Dylan is sweet and kind, although she says she'll run a background check on supervisor, Spencers' Uncle Toby. Haley excitingly thanks Claire and walks out the room to call Dylan. DeDe then tells Claire that something is very revealing, Claire thinks she means her change in parenting skills, but DeDe confirms she means Claire's blouse, Claire

hold her chest as she says 'Mom!' and walks out of the room. Mitch tells his Mom that she isn't making things easy, but still catches up with Claire to persuade her to let DeDe stay. Claire then asks why Mitchell is cleaning up her mess instead of DeDe cleaning up her own mess. Mitchell then says that she is the one with a screwed up relationship with 'Mommy' Claire then mocks the fact he called DeDe 'Mommy' she then agrees to let her stay, and says that Mitchell has to clear it up with 'Daddy' which Mitch mocks her back for mocking him.

We go to Mitch over at his Dad's house in the backyard, Jay is sunbathing and Mitch walks up to him, Jay asks what Mitchell is doing here. Mitchell explains that he wants to talk to Gloria, Jay says she isn't in the house at the moment and she's dealing with a Manny problems he explains that Manny set a kids bike on fire (which is shown in a clip shortly) because Jay told Manny to get the kid back consequently of what the kid did to him earlier on in the episode. Jay says that it wasn't his best parenting moment and Mitch under his breath says 'not your worst', it seems that Jay overhears this and breaks it by asking 'what's up?' to which Mitchell says that Mom is in town, Jay asks if it's his ex-wife although this is the only person it can be as Jay's Mom would have to come back from the dead which is a joke that Mitchell makes. Jay then says that it would be less scary than DeDe if she did. Mitch asks whether or not Jay would tell Gloria, to which he says that Gloria would never forgive him if he pulled a fast one on her (meaning, he gave her less than a day to know about it) so he tells Mitchell that he's going to do it and Jay is going to act as if he knew nothing about it, which evidently screws with Mitchell, Jay starts to tell Mitchell that the conversation never took place and he is going to erase this part of his memory. Mitchell then walks away evidently angry with his Dad.

It's now nighttime, at the Dunphys' where everyone is now, except for Dylan (Jay, Gloria and Manny); who rings the bell for Phil to answer. Haley goes up to hug and kiss him, making it awkward for Phil, Haley then introduces Dylan to her family, everyone says hi, and DeDe tells Claire that he is an gentle soul, to which Claire asks if she got that from just a 'Hey', Dylan tells Phil he came from practice when Phil sees he brought his guitar with him. Dylan asks if Phil was in a band and Phil tells him that he could have been but he was all about his magic, and Haley ignores it and brings Dylan to sit down near her family. The doorbell rings again and this time it's Gloria and Jay with Manny; DeDe says that it's silly that she is nervous, but Mitch tells her that it's not silly, she should be as Gloria doesn't know about DeDe being there and staying for dinner, as no one told her, afraid of her reaction. So she is left to be the only one (including Manny) to be shocked she's there.

When Gloria sees DeDe, Mitchell says 'Oh, boy!' knowing he's going to have to explain since Jay won't tell his wife he knew; what makes it more awkward, is DeDe saying that she thought Mitchell already told Gloria.

Which Gloria responds to with 'lies!' Mitchell says that he couldn't tell as Gloria wouldn't come if she knew. Mitchell tells Gloria that DeDe wants to apologize for ruining her wedding. Jay then pretends he doesn't know by saying 'so you just spring it on Gloria like this; Mitchell what the hell is wrong with you?!' to which Mitchell gives him a look. Gloria tells Mitchell; not talking to DeDe, that she doesn't want apologies from her, Jay then makes it a little too obvious that he knows, however what he says seems to go unnoticed by everyone except them. Gloria then tells Jay and Manny to leave, but is stopped by DeDe when she finally apologises to Gloria properly and beautifully enough that Gloria forgives her (although Jay says before that nothing could ever make Gloria forgive her) and when Gloria does forgive her, DeDe doesn't expect to be forgiven she just wants to apologise, Mitchell then says 'Oh, okay. you see? Yeah, we're all gonna move past this. And because of me, who-who's not a mama's boy. But is a caring person with wisdom and emotional insight, so make a note, bitches!' Cam then tells Mitch that it's not a great colour on him (meaning that the way he's acting isn't him and doesn't suit him) anger once again suddenly gets the better of DeDe and she starts to aggressively attack Gloria after saying 'I just wanna... rip your head off!' consequently resulting in a fight between Gloria and DeDe, that requires Phil, Cam and Mitch again to this time, pull them apart. It also results in everyone except Haley and Dylan shouting very loudly to tell them to stop. Phil shouts 'I got Gloria!' while Cam and Mitch have DeDe, but don't shout it.

Another fight starts to break out when DeDe says sorry again as Gloria tells her not to say sorry anymore. The person to least give a heart to heart is the person who isn't related to any of them, Dylan. Dylan tell them that "it seems pretty simple to me: You're reaching out, trying to hold on to something awesome-' He is stopped by his girlfriend Haley telling him 'maybe you shouldn't' but he finishes 'I'm not used to this: the whole big-family thing. In my house, we don't even talk to each other, you know, it's funny: The first time I saw Haley, I knew I liked her, I mean, she's beautiful and everything but, it's not just that. It's that she's got this killer confidence, you know, the kind of confidence, that you get from having a family like this: passionate and accepting of 'hot' foreigners, and 'gay dudes' and 'nutty people', you know a family that actually loves each other."

Claire and Phil are then suddenly accepting of both letting her be with Dylan and letting her go to the concert with him, and tells him to play music for them. Dylan plays a song (see Music for song link) called "In the Moonlight" by Reid, the person who plays Dylan. As he plays the song he gets to the lyrics "I just wanna do you" and everyone seems surprised and horrified at the same time as they realize that 'In the Moonlight' is a song about having sex with Haley. after a few seconds of realizing whilst the music plays, Claire says 'She's so not going' and Phil agrees with 'Not a chance in hell'.

There is an ending scene where everyone is singing parts of the song Dylan sung before. Mitchell is singing the full version of 'In the Moonlight' to Lily having the song in his mind. They cut to Luke singing it, then Claire, Phil, Jay, Mitch and Cam who harmonize together when Mitch walks in on him. Cam tells Mitch he isn't good at harmonizing but Mitch says it was 'good'.

---

## [Starry Night](https://modernfamily.fandom.com/wiki/Starry_Night)

Phil loves to relax by watching nature programs with his noise-reducing headphones on. All the better to drown out Claire yelling at Haley and Luke, who have projects for school. Phil will help Luke with his assignment on Van Gogh, while Claire helps Haley bake 40 cupcakes. Claire tells him how to handle Luke, but he doesn't want to smother him. That's the mother's style. Of course, Haley is the puppetmaster. A few drops of eggshells in the bowl, and Claire is lone wolfing it while she's texting all her friends. Upstairs, Phil and Luke get going on the project...right after they find out how they get the lead inside of a pencil.

Jay is taking Mitchell and Manny camping to look at a meteor shower, something Jay did with Mitchell as a kid and now wants to pass that on to Manny. Manny is all excited to go because he can rip on his brother as only brothers can do. That leaves Gloria and Cameron to spend the night together. Cameron is walking on eggshells, though. At a party, he complained once about not liking Brown people or that "Columbia tart" because all of Mitchell's Ivy League friends were so pretentious. Of course, Gloria heard every part of that conversation except Ivy League. Cameron tries to explain, naturally, but in awkward situations, he becomes even more awkward. A few too many "your people" drops didn't rectify the situation. It also didn't help that he got this awesome reservation at a club for the two of them, and Gloria said she just wanted to eat at a simple restaurant. Cameron is worried. He thought Gloria and he would be great together. A hot, curvy, spicy diva. ("And Gloria.") She recommends a little Latin place.

CAMERON: That sounds fantastic. I would love to see how your people eat. (realizes) 'YOUR PEOPLE'?!?!? WHAT IS WRONG WITH ME?!?!?

Manny is in full 'brother' mode with Mitchell, correcting him that Earth is the densest planet and not Mercury. To be fair, Jay put Manny up to it. Manny was worried about saying the wrong thing to him, but Jay assured him that brothers can rip on each other all they want because that's the beauty of being brothers. Mitchell getting sprayed by a skunk gave Manny plenty of material, and Jay asked for plenty of distance.

Luke actually makes a bit of progress using Phil's approach to give him some space and a starting point. But apparently, Luke might be ADHD, and judging by the fact that Phil notices a loose armrest on his chair and is determined to fix it, only to try and fix the garage light, only to go to a high shelf to get his lost sunglasses, perhaps they could figure out where he gets it.

Cameron and Gloria find a restaurant in her old neighborhood, the only neighborhood she could afford after she left Javier and before meeting Jay. The cook recommends chicken enchiladas for him, but he won't be dissuaded by being the only white person (and gay person) in the restaurant. "Dos Carnitas Diablos, por favor". If Gloria can handle those spices, so can he. Not only is he sweating bullets and looking like he's about to have a heart attack, but he makes the mistake of trying to drink water, which just makes it worse. A milk and several apologies later, Cameron explains he was bending over backwards not to offend Gloria. She is touched and tells him she was never offended. He's too good of a friend to get her upset. She loves her old neighborhood. However she stops feeling the love when she sees that Cameron's tires have been stolen.

The actual reason Gloria felt a bit low-key was that she was feeling guilty over buying a really expensive dress that she didn't even need. She thought it would look good on her. Unfortunately, we never found out how good the dress looked on her. We did find out how good it looked on Mitchell. That's all that was in Jay's car for Mitchell to wear because his own clothes were too skunked up. Manny and Jay get in a few more shots, but Jay has to stop eventually and make peace. Mitchell thinks things are bad because of wearing the dress and the skunk smell. However, Jay took Manny on the camping trip because Manny got betrayed by a few classmates he thought were friends. They ditched him from going to a party because they thought he was weird. Jay wants Mitch to talk to Manny because he would do a better job. Manny apologizes to Mitchell, saying he was trying to bond with him. Mitchell takes it in stride. Mitchell and Manny talk, with Mitchell explaining how all kids don't want to be different so they fit in. Then suddenly, everybody WANTS to be different.

After finding Phil on the floor in the garage when he tried to recover his sunglasses, Claire reads him the riot act about his methods for watching Luke and the two go upstairs to find Luke playing with a Mr. Potato Head. Claire loses it, and Phil agrees to do it her way. She berates him for not paying attention, trips on the same step he did, and returns to the kitchen to finish the cupcakes that Haley is supposed to be doing. Phil apologizes to Claire and is about to go upstairs to crack the whip, but Luke brings down his completed presentation. He wasn't playing with Mr. Potato Head; he was borrowing the ears to put on the display. The display looks so good, Claire is inspired. She brings out the 40 cupcakes she made...and threw them in the trash.

After Haley finishes her cupcakes, no amount of eggshells in the bowl is going to dissuade Claire this time. ("Do we still have the number for Poison Control?").

---

## [Great Expectations](https://modernfamily.fandom.com/wiki/Great_Expectations)

Claire looks through images of a young her and Phil.

We are at the Dunphy household where it's Phil and Claire's anniversary. Phil has set up a View-Master slide show of (presumably) their honeymoon, where his perm really framed his face, and added a little slide of a beautiful bracelet, which she was confused about and she didn't know she wanted...until he gave it to her. Her present for him? Coupons for 5 free hugs. She claims he never wants anything, but he gets "interviewed" and says he does actually want things: wants "Robot dog, night-vision goggles, bug vacuum, G.P.S. Watch, speakers that look like rocks. I love my wife, but she sucks at giving gifts. I'm sorry for the pay-channel language, but- Oh, yogurt maker! I can't not think of things I want!".

Mitchell and Cam with Lily.

We are at the Tucker and Pritchett household, where Mitch and Cameron recite the information on Lily's diapers: Cameron says 'Triple Leakage Protection' and then Mitch says 'LeakLock' and 'Contours to protect her little body' and then Cam says 'No gapping or chapping' and realise that they've hit that proverbial wall that all new parents hit: they need a night out with no baby talk Mitch thinks it'll make them better parents if- Which is where Mitch is cut off by Cam, when he says that he doesn't need to advertise it to him anymore as he's already in. Cam then gets the idea of enlisting Gloria's help with babysitting Lily, so they can party with Sal. It seems that she is the ultimate uninhibited party animal...and that's before she's had some booze. Cam says that hanging out with her is like an Amsterdam Saturday night every day of the week. Mitch then says "And, ironically Sal's not allowed back into Amsterdam.".

We are at the Pritchett household where Gloria is on the phone with Mitchell and Cameron who are now giving the news that they are making Gloria take care of Lily, Gloria seems thrilled to have Lily over, although Claire and Phil's kids are already sleeping over, now even Jay is enthused. Manny is more than a little excited about Haley coming over as he has a crush on her, so Jay tells Manny that they are related (Step-Niece, Step-Uncle) and he will ready the hose on him at any time to stop Manny from flirting with Haley. It's Jay's Night, where everybody is in their PJ's, he makes Sloppy Jay's, which are Sloppy Jo's, but since they are made by Jay he has to rename them, and they watch a Western. Jay says that the kids don't like to watch the Western movies but he does and they put up with it because it's Jay's night and they love family.

Phil has order flowers for Claire.

We are back with the Dunphys, where Haley wants to hang out at a party at a boy's house down the street instead of going to Jays' house for Jays' Night to which Claire tells her no as she has already made a commitment and needs to spend time with her family, Haley tells Claire that she also doesn't want to go because Manny seems to just stare at her in an inappropriate manner, Alex tells her that she should wear a bra. Claire then goes crazy because Alex then says that she wants to go as she says that she wants to spend time with family and then starts to be her usual self: convincing Luke that Grandpa doesn't have a lot of time left to which Claire tells Alex off telling Luke his grandpa is fine, but Alex carries on and has to whisper "For now". A person at the door has delivered Flowers to Claire at her door which implies that Phil has added flowers and balloons to Claire's present. When this happens Phil tells Claire that he doesn't want her to feel bad about only giving him the coupons. Claire tells him she doesn't feel bad because she has the rest of his present ready for him tonight. Claire gets "interviewed" where she says "I got nothing. I'm so screwed" implying she really hasn't got anything for Phil accept the coupons as she really doesn't know what to get him.

We are back with Mitch and Cam who meet Sal at a loud nightclub. Sal is the party girl she always was, even introducing them to her two best friends: her breasts, which have been enlarged. Sal tells them to feel them, and Mitch tells her he's "gay not dead" and then asks Cam if he's okay with it which he implies he's fine and Mitch says "I'm coming in" while they both just stare at her breasts in awe.

We are back with Jay who is cooking, Gloria comes in singing badly to Lily, who is in her arms, Jay asks if Lily seems to like her singing, Gloria tells him "Yes, it relaxes her" and under his breath Jay says "So, Lily's deaf", the doorbell rings and Manny is already freshening up; waiting for Haley, Jay answers the door and welcomes Luke, Alex and Haley, Alex tells Gloria "Ola!" and Gloria "Ola!"'s back, Manny jumps in with an "Well hello there, Haley" which evidently creeps Haley out, Jay tells him to take it down a notch. Jay asks if everyone is ready for fun, Luke gives him a look and when Jay asks what, Luke hugs him and tells him that he loves him and won't forget him, believing what Alex said: Jay is dying. And Jay tells him "Back at ya, champ", Jay asks Haley where are her Pyjamas are and Haley tells him they're in her bag but she wants to talk about something but Alex is quick to shoot it down telling Jay that she wants to go to a party with Dylan, Haley tells her to shut up and tells Jay that it's at her friend Andrews' house. Haley tells him "So I wouldn't ask you this, because I love coming to your house, but it's kind of an important party, and I-" and is cut off by Jay finishing what she means "Somebody invites you over, the last thing you wanna do is insult them." Jay tells Haley that he's glad they agree, but Haley misunderstands what Jay is telling her: You're not going to the party, you're staying here because it's Jays' Night. Alex is quick to say "You really don't understand what just happened there, do you?" Haley seems confused and Jay shouts, "P.J.'s on, Haley!". Manny tells Jay that he would be happy to let Haley change in his room, Haley comes back and sprays him with a spray bottle 3 times.

We are back with the Dunphys, where the situation swaps around from last time the doorbell rings and it is for Phil instead from Claire. Phil gets the door in excitement, and sees Izzy LaFontaine at the door he introduces himself with "Rock on, Phil Dunphy!" Claire, having finally found something for Phil, says "Read it and weep!" punching him playfully but in a way that has probably actually really hurt Phil, it seems that Phil doesn't actually know who it is while Izzy and Claire thinks he does. Claire explains in an "interview" that Phil loves 'Spandau Ballet' and the song "True" was playing in the car the first time they kissed, "It's our song. So I did some research, found out that the lead guitarist lives, like, 40 miles from here. He was in the phone book. How '80s is that?" We see Phil being "interviewed" where he says: "I never liked Spandau Ballet. Our entire marriage, I never once mentioned Spandau Ballet. Am I even pronouncing that right?" We come back to Phil and Claire who are with Izzy, Claire tells him that Izzy is here so he can play their song for them. We cut to an "interview" of Phil where he looks helpless and so confused only giving a gesture of "I don't know anymore".

We come back to Mitch and Cam who are in the strip club with Sal, who tells them that she misses them so much, and they toast to themselves, after they have all drunk their shots Sal slams her glass down while saying 'Cabo' startling Cameron and Mitchell, Mitchell asks her what she just said and Sal says: "Seriously, you bastards. We've been talking about it forever. We're doing it! We're going to Cabo. Let's do it! Let's do it!" Cam resists with a "All right let's go!", Mitchell agrees with Cam, Mitchells tells Cam they need to find someone to look after Lily. Sal asks Mitch and Cam "How much are you gonna pay me to go make out with the waitress?" Mitch and Cam decide and she gets up to do it, Cam says that he's going to go and check on Lily very quickly, Sal asks if he's going to do it right now and tells Cam he'll miss her slutting it up with 'Driving Miss Daisy' Mitch and Cam tell her it'll be very quickly and Sal joking-but-not-joking tell them they should kill that baby, which Mitch and Cam give her a look for saying. They call her back asking what she just said and she lies saying she said "You should call that baby". Cam, knowing that she's lying, asks if she just said what she said but is cut off by Mitchell saying that he may be slightly scared of her right now.

We come back to the Dunphys, the Pritchetts and Manny (Delgado), who are playing poker in the kitchen at the table. Jay tells them that he has got nothing, Gloria says she thinks she has a very good pair of cards, Jay tells her "you sure do" in a sexual reference way, Alex says she has squat (nothing) and Haley says she has nothing as well, but when she puts down her cards Jay sees them and tells her that she has a straight meaning she's won the game. And Haley gets excited about winning the game. She says that she thinks she deserves a soda and what she really means is 'I'm going to go and sneak out of the house so I can go to the party' however Jay has already beat her and is mysteriously already outside changing a light bulb he gives Haley the metaphor "Now I can see everything that goes on around here". In an "interview" Jay says: "I've had a little practice at this. Haley wasn't throwing anything at me I hadn't seen before from her mother and then some. But nobody gets off The Rock".

We are back with Dunphys: Claire and Phil, where they start listening to a song from Izzy LaFontaine, before Izzy starts to play Phil tells Claire that Izzy is awesome and Claire tells him "You're welcome", Izzy doesn't exactly start playing a song, he's more tapping one string on the guitar while singing "Tonight, so right, so right, lover" and then tells Phil that he thinks Claire wants a kiss from him, Claire and Phil then kiss and Izzy tells him not to kiss her like she's his sister, Izzy stops playing and then says that it wasn't an okay joke to make stating that his sister lost her feet to complications from diabetes. When the situation turns sad, Phil asks to get Izzy some water, Izzy goes for tea; Chamomile. Claire gets up to get it and tells Phil to stay there as it's his present. Izzy asks Phil to name his playlist which makes things awkward when he realizes that Phil doesn't know him or his bands songs, which Izzy tells Phil is humiliating because his music was amazing to people and now he feels like he is nothing. He's about to leave when Phil tells him the truth: Claire seems to think it's their song and he doesn't want to hurt her feelings and Izzy asks Phil what about his feelings telling Phil it was his career that went down south. Phil and Izzy argue but stop when Claire comes back and Phil lies; since Phil is touching Izzy's guitar, saying "He let me touch it!".

We come back to Cam and Mitch, where Mitch tells Cameron that he thinks he did actually hear Sal say "kill" and not "call", Cam tells Mitch that maybe it was just a joke, as she's always had a dark sense of humor. Cam gives Sal's Halloween costume as an example: "When she came as Siegfried and part of Roy" which Mitch says was a little too soon. Mitch tells Cam that he's going to bring up Lily and show her some photographs when she comes back which she is right now. Sal sits at the table and says she got free drinks, Mitch tells Sal that she has to look at the photographs (of Lily), Sal asks what they are and Mitch tells Sal it's Lily at the Zoo, which Sal makes a remark saying: "Cute, cute, cute.", Sal tells them that they should bring Lily to Cabo, and then makes a remark saying that she'll throw her in the ocean, it seems that she thinks that Lily seems to kill the fun that Cam and Mitch have with her. Mitch asks what she said once again and Sal lies about what she said once again: "I said I gotta go pee", this time Cam does hear what she says and tells Mitch "that wasn't even close" meaning that what she said to cover up the lie didn't even sound close to what the lie sounded like. We have a cut-scene.

Sal climbs over to Mitchell and Cameron

And we come back with Mitch and Cam, Cam says: "I mean, what do we do? Do we say something? How do we even bring it up?" to which Mitchell tells Cam: "She threatened our child, and that's your concern- a segue?" and Cam goes onto a different path: "You know what this is?... This is first-child syndrome", Cam explains using 'second child' as a metaphor for Sal: "It's where the first child is happy, and then the second child comes along, and the first child gets jealous of the second child and starts acting out." Mitchell tells Cam that the idea is brilliant except that Sal isn't their child. Cam then tells Mitch that they've done everything for her that they would do for a baby. Sal climbs over to tell Mitch and Cam that when they go to Cabo they have to "find a hotel with a swim-up bar, 'cause this going back and forth to the bathroom is a fool's game. Okay, let's get more drinks". Mitchell tells Sal they they have to talk, and Cam says it's about Lily, Sal then tells Mitch and Cam, "Shocker!", Mitchell asks if it's "possible that maybe you're jealous of her?" Sal exclaims "What?!" as

Sal falls asleep drunk on Cam and Mitch

she is astounded that Mitch and Cam would think that. Sal asks Mitch "Why would you say that?" Cam pitches in with: "Well, because you won't look at any pictures of her and you talked about killing her and throwing her in the ocean" Sal tells Mitch and Cam that it was all a joke and then asks to see photographs of "Yoko" and Mitch and Cam tell her she's doing it again and it doesn't seem like a joke, more like hidden anger and jealousy. Sal once again explains it's a joke "'Cause she's Asian and she broke up our group". Mitchell then asks Sal to at least acknowledge that we haven't been as close anymore and Cameron tells Sal that just because Lily is here doesn't mean that they love Sal any less. This prompts Sal to really open up with: "We used to be really close, and you used to call me a lot. And now you never call me... And last week I had a really bad dream, and I was thinking, 'Okay, I'm gonna call them.' And then I thought, 'Oh, no, you can't call them because you might wake up their baby.'". Mitchell and Cameron then tell her always call us, we always be there. They then begin to have to treat her like a baby and then Sal falls asleep.

We are back in the Pritchett household, where Gloria is singing badly to Lily to get her to go to sleep, Gloria says that she doesn't know why she hasn't gone to sleep yet, Alex tells Gloria "I have a theory". Jay comes back from shopping and tells everyone that he got the Western movie: 'The Gunfighters', Jay tells Manny to heat up some popcorn. Jay asks Haley "You lookin' for these?" while holding up her shoes. Haley exclaims: "You took my shoes?", and Jay tells her: "No, I took your freedom. Sorry, kid. It ain't your night." and Haley asks Jay why he's being like this. Haley tells Jay that she only wanted to go to the party and would've been back 2 hours later. Haley storms off to Manny's bedroom. Jay tells Gloria: "She's just like her mother" but Gloria doesn't agree with him: "Why are you treating Haley like this?", Jay tells her that "She's the one acting like a pill". Gloria tells him that he's taking it too personally, when she was Haley's age she loved her grandpa but she still wanted to go to parties and be with boys. Jay tells Gloria that he knows this, as Claire wanted to and Mitchell wanted to, but if someone tries to put something over on him they're going to lose. Gloria asks Jay if he's now going to make it into a big game that he's going to win, Jay tells Gloria that he is just trying to keep them around a little bit longer and in front of Luke he says: "Who knows how many nights like this I got left?" which prompts Luke to hug Jay and say: "I miss you already" which weirds Jay out and makes him tell Luke to go and help the others out instead of being there with him, he then tells Luke he'll be there in a minute. Gloria tells Jay that it's great he wants to spend time with his granddaughter but asks Jay if it's really the way he wants to spend time with her: Her whining and moaning because he's trying to keep her a prisoner with him instead of letting her go to the party. Jay gives in when Gloria convinces him to let her go to the party, and Gloria tells him he's a good "Abuelo" (Grandfather) he heads for the back yard garden and Gloria tells him that she's upstairs to which Jay responds with "I know", we see Jay in the back yard shouting for Dylan, Dylan asks how Jay knew he was there and Jay tells him that's how he met Phil. We have a cut-scene.

Dylan is now in the house with Haley who is now downstairs. Haley gives Jay mahalos (thank you's/gratitude) for allowing her to go to the party, Jay tells Haley he will track her down and Haley tells Jay that she believes he will. Dylan asks what he is smelling and Jay tells him that it's Sloppy Jay's and to help himself as there's a lot left, and Dylan realizes the name change meaning. We see Manny look at Haley and Dylan and says to himself: "I can't believe she's into this guy." Gloria tells Dylan that she'll fix him a plate of Sloppy Jays if he wants some and Dylan replies with a yes, Haley asks "What about the party" and Dylan implies that he's no longer interested. Gloria tells Haley "Don't fight it Haley they never grow up" and that there is no changing his mind this is just what men do and you can't tell them any differently. Manny tells everyone that he's going into the kitchen for an espresso, he asks if anyone wants anything and off-screen Alex replies no thanks.

We are back with Claire and Phil at their house, where Claire is still in belief that "True" is their song, Claire has paper with words on it while Izzy starts to play the song "True". Claire says: "The year was 1991. America was immersed in Desert Storm. Meanwhile, stateside, another storm was brewing in my heart." Claire stops to ask if Phil thinks what she is doing is stupid. Izzy also asks "Is it stupid, Phil?" slightly implying their earlier argument should be brought to light with Claire in the room this time. Izzy and Claire carry on: "After a romantic dinner at Fratelli's, a certain nervous young couple shared their first kiss as the radio played this song." Claire and Phil hug and after a long time, Izzy stops and has to tell Claire the truth which Phil insists he doesn't but after Izzy convinces him, Phil tells Claire that this isn't their song, 'If You Leave' by OMD is, Claire then asks Phil if he is sure to which Phil is pretty sure as he sang it at their wedding. Claire then says that she is an idiot for thinking different and Izzy tells her that he is the idiot as it seems Phil fell in love to a breakup song. Phil then tells her that what she's done for him is beautiful and he still loves it. Claire then tells Phil that she hates the fact that he is so sweet and nice and the one chance she gets to make it up to him she fails. Claire then him that she loves him so much but feels as if he's never going to know it, Phil stops Claire saying he does know it. Phil then tells Claire that it's an awesome gift as he sets "True" to be their new song. Izzy jumps in with: "Sort of brought you back together, eh? Seems" Phil agrees with him, but in a way that implies he is annoyed he ruined their moment, he then jumps back in with: "Rekindled fires of a dying passion?" to which Phil then does the same thing. Izzy then again jumps back in with: "Shot a ray of hope into this gloomy suburban lie?" Claire and Phil then tell him to play the song as he is a little more than annoyed now. Claire and Phil then hug to "True".

There is an ending scene where, we are are back with the Jays' Night crew who are watching the Western movie, we see Haley feed Dylan food and Manny looks at them sipping his espresso disgustingly, we see that Sal, Cam, Mitch and Lily have now joined, Sal says that Lily is so sweet, now getting used to her Sal then says Lily is a little angel and as she goes to hold her, Mitchell gets up and stops her, still not trusting her a little. We see Luke standing over Jay testing to see if he has a pulse, as he is asleep. Jay wakes up and Luke says: "Oh thank God!" which evidently confuses Jay.

---

## [The Bicycle Thief](https://modernfamily.fandom.com/wiki/The_Bicycle_Thief)

Phil, Claire and Luke are out on a family bike ride when they run into their new beautiful neighbor, Desiree, who is out for a jog. She shares that she's just staying in her new house until her divorce is final. After saying goodbye to Desiree, Claire tells Phil that they're never to have her over because rumor has it that she's already slept with two fathers at the school.

Luke has been riding Alex's old girly bike, badly camouflaged with black tape, so Phil decides it's time for Luke to get a new one. Claire thinks that Luke is not quite responsible enough to take care of such an important item. However, Phil thinks he is. Unfortunately, when he's walking home, Phil sees the bike unlocked and unsupervised. Angry that Luke has proven him wrong after mere hours, Phil decides to teach Luke a lesson by stealing the bike. However, Phil doesn't realize that the bike doesn't belong to Luke but is simply an identical one.

Mitchell and Cameron organize a play date for Lily with several other moms and their kids. One of the other moms asks if Lily is scooting or grabbing things yet as an eight-month old. Lily, however, is not yet scooting or grabbing, and Mitchell is worried so he lies in front of the other moms.

Riding the stolen bicycle home, Phil runs into Desiree, who has locked herself out of the house and asks Phil to help her. So he helps unlocks her house but finds that the bicycle he was riding is gone. He runs to the bicycle shop again to purchase a new bike (and takes the insurance this time).

Jay and Manny are working on a little project together to install a ceiling fan. Jay insists on ignoring the instructions while Manny has them memorized. Gloria has planned a weekend away with Jay in wine country because Manny's dad is taking him to Disneyland, but she is happy the boys are bonding. Gloria equates the two to a Colombian sitcom, "Salazar & El Oso," that she thinks is hysterical.

Phil brings the new bike into the house, ready to teach Luke a lesson about responsibility. He corners Luke with a little reverse psychology, and it works. Luke breaks down and apologizes for the scratch. Finally, realizing he has stolen someone else's bike, Phil decides to return the new bike to the place where he stole the first bike. However, Claire catches him.

Unfortunately, the male bonding between Jay and Manny isn't going well. As Jay tries to install the ceiling fan, apparently using the screwdriver wrong according to Manny, one of the fans comes down and hits Manny on the arm. Jay is apologetic, but Manny is upset. He thinks his arm is broken, but Jay wants him to be tougher about it. Manny would rather wait for his real dad and says he hates having to be with Jay. Jay says the feeling is mutual, but quickly regrets saying so.

Phil is trying to cover his tracks, but Claire thinks it's actually a bit funny that Phil would steal another kid's bike to teach Luke a lesson and then try to return the bike. She is more annoyed about him keeping things from her. Phil claims it got stolen while he was at a gas station, and the lie works. It's classic Phil, up to the point where the woman he helped returns it. Apparently one of her neighbors put it in her garage while Phil was in her bedroom.

At the Gymboree, Lily is still not up to speed on stacking or scooting so Mitchell decides to take matters in his own hands, by taking another kids' blocks and giving credit to Lily. The instructor is impressed and is more than happy to give Mitchell a copy of the security camera feed. Mitchell is embarrassed and wants to leave, until Anton and Scott arrive with their kid. Mitchell apologizes for making Cameron stay in first gear, but it's time for parents' dance time, and Cameron wants to dance for his baby. Mitchell tells him to make that horsey move. Cameron is a hit.

Manny is sitting on the porch in front of Jay's house, waiting for his father, Javier, to take him to Disneyland. However, Javier tells Jay (not Manny) that he can't drag himself away from a casino. He decides to run block for Javier anyway, ordering a limo to take them to Disneyland, still giving Javier credit for the idea.

---

